UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS

===== PAGE 10 =====
3	 Read the passage again and complete the chart below.
4	 Match the following headers with the letters from the chart above. Write A–E 
in the blanks.
The truth was that the water from the Broad Street pump had been infected by waste. 
Moreover, Snow was later able to show a link between other cases of cholera and 
the different water companies in London. Some companies sold water from the River 
Thames that was polluted by raw waste. The people who drank this water were much 
more likely to get cholera than those who drank pure or boiled water.
Through Snow’s tireless efforts, water companies began to sell clean water, and the 
threat of cholera around the world saw a substantial decrease. However, cholera is still 
a problem. Each year, millions of people around the world get cholera and many die 
from it. Fortunately, we now know how to prevent cholera, thanks to the work of John 
Snow. Moreover, in his use of maps and statistics, Snow transformed the way scientists 
study diseases. For this reason, Snow is considered the father of modern epidemiology. 
1 conclusion 
  2 evidence 
  3 process 
  4 solution 
  5 theories 
It was believed that 
cholera was caused 
by bad 
 or 
germs in 
.
Snow 
 the 
places where the people 
who 
 had 
lived.
The pump 
water carried 
.
The 
of the pump was 
removed.
Many deaths occurred near the 
 in Broad Street.
Some people 
 
drunk the water from the 
pump, and lived.
A woman and her daughter 
died in another part of London 
after 
.
A
B
C
D
E
5	 Write out the questions according to the answers.
6	 In groups, discuss the following questions.
1	 Q: What 
?
	
A: Snow thought that cholera was caused by germs in food or water.
2	 Q: Why 
?
	
A: Snow had the handle of the pump removed so that it could not  
	
	
be used.
3	 Q: How 
?
	
A: The cholera threat was defeated thanks to the work of John Snow.
1	 What was the most important tool Snow used to defeat cholera? What common medical 
tools, e.g., a microscope, didn’t he use? Why?
2	 How has John Snow’s work affected our daily lives? 
Ask questions
One way to approach 
a reading passage is to 
ask questions about it. 
Asking questions can 
help you understand 
the content. It can also 
help you think more 
deeply about the topic.
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
3

===== PAGE 11 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Find the words from the previous pages with the following prefixes or suffixes. 
Then add two words for each prefix or suffix, and explain their meanings.
3	 Replace the underlined parts with suitable words from the box.
raw    a household name    substantial    statistics    handle
2	 Make phrases by combining the words in the left box with those on the right. 
Then complete the sentences using these phrases.
1	 Many scientists 
 the view that it is human activity that has caused global warming.
2	 He was to 
 the accident because he drove on the wrong side of the road. 
3	 The man 
 being behind the robbery was seen crossing the street.
4	 Since heart disease is often 
 our lifestyle choices, we need to make healthy 
living an important part of our lives.
subscribe  suspect  blame  link 
to  of  for
4	 Read this passage about medical science. Complete it using the words below. 
British scientists believe they may have found a way to fight the common cold. It blocks a 
key protein in the body’s cells that is to 
 for the spread of cold-causing virus. 
Targeting the host rather than the 
 was a bit non-traditional but made sense 
because it was tricky to target the virus. Cold-causing viruses are not only of 
 
kinds, they also 
 rapidly, meaning they can quickly develop resistance to 
medicine. Researchers are working on making a form of medicine that can be taken directly 
into one’s lungs, to 
 the chance of side effects. Though these scientists have 
made 
 advances in their research, further 
 is needed to make 
sure such drugs are not so 
 that they harm the body.
infection  multiple  decrease  severe  transform  proof  blame  substantial 
1	 It is not unusual for an athlete to be well-known while he is active, and quickly forgotten 
when his athletic career is over.  
2	 I’m sure she’ll deal with the changes very well because she’s very adaptable.
3	 He was ready to serve dinner to his friends when he realised that he had forgotten to turn 
on the oven and the meat was not cooked yet.
4	 He used his great influence to change the thinking of the scientific community on this issue.
5	 Scientists have collected more data than expected to prove the theory.
4
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
Prefix
Words
Prefix
Words
Suffix
Words
Suffix
Words
re-
micro-
-ory
-ial
dis-
trans-
-ion
-ology

===== PAGE 12 =====
Discover useful structures 
1	 Underline all the examples in the reading passage where noun clauses are 
used as the predicative. Then state their meaning and functions.
2	 Answer the following questions using the information from the reading 
passage as well as the predicative clauses. 
3	 David is talking to Maria about their scientific research project. First complete 
David’s lines (A–E), using the words in the box. Then put David’s lines in the 
correct order and practise the conversation.
A	 Absolutely. You may not believe it, but that was 
 happened at the initial stage 
of our group’s research on developing a vaccine for malaria. 
B	 Yes, it is. And it seemed 
 all the theories were useful, but the fact was 
 we couldn’t persuade one another that one theory was better than another.
C	 Exactly. The problem was not about 
 all our theories were equally good, but in 
deciding 
 theory to depend upon.
D	 We realised that what we cared about was not 
 aspect we needed to develop 
a theory in, but rather 
 we can reduce the cost of a vaccine without reducing its 
effect!
E	 You’re right. At last, we became focused on the key issue, which was 
 we had 
to carry out the research in the first place.
Maria: This mix of theory and data is one of the key characteristics of what we call science.
David: 
Maria: With your theoretical framework?
David: 
Maria: Deciding on a theory is definitely of critical importance.
David: 
Maria: This was when you should have calmed down and got down to doing some solid work.
David: 
Maria: So what happened in the end?
David: 
What was it that John Snow showed to the world? 
What John Snow showed to the world was how cholera could be overcome.
1	 What was Snow’s discovery in two particular streets in London?
	 Snow’s discovery in two particular streets in London was that 
.
2	 What was Snow determined to find out during the 1854 outbreak of cholera in London?
	 What Snow was determined to find out was why 
.
3	 What were the exact places Snow marked on the map?
	 The exact places Snow marked on the map were where 
.
4	 What was the finding that Snow announced?
	 Snow’s finding was that 
.  
EXAMPLE
as if    that    what    who    when    how    why    whose    which    whether
A
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
5

===== PAGE 13 =====
Using Language
1    Look at the photos below, and discuss in groups what these activities have to do 
with science. 
2	 The photos above are related to the 
conversation you will hear. Using the photos, 
try to predict the answers to the following 
questions.
3	 Listen to the conversation and see if your answers for Activity 2 are correct. 
Then write down the letters (A–E) for the photos in the order that you hear them 
described. 
4	 Listen again and complete the descriptions of the photos above. 
Talk about scientific experiences
1	 Where are the people in the conversation 
going to go?
2	 What kind of place is it, and what does it 
focus on?
3	 What kinds of things can you do there?
1 
   2 
   3 
   4 
   5 
 
Predict by using pictures
One way to get more out of your 
listening is to predict what you will 
hear. Using the pictures provided and 
the knowledge you already have, you 
can guess the kinds of information you 
should listen for. At times, you may even 
be able to guess exactly what will be 
talked about. This will help you focus 
better when listening, making your 
listening more effective.
A
B
C
E
D
Photo A:	 A giant dish; when you speak into it, it 
 the sound back and 
. You can use it to speak in a 
 to 
someone 17 metres away.
Photo B:	 A giant 
 that you can use your feet to play. Instead of playing 
the sounds of a piano, it plays the voices of 
.
Photo C:	 You look at a blue screen for a while, and then suddenly you can see 
 
 moving around on it. These are our 
.
Photo D:	 A 
 where you can see yourself reflected thousands of times.
Photo E:	 You stand in front of 
, and it casts different shadows of 
you, in 
 the rainbow.
6
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS

===== PAGE 14 =====
Listening and Speaking
5	 Discuss the following questions in groups.
6	 In groups, choose one of the museum activities on the previous page or 
brainstorm another scientific research or experiment that you are interested in. 
7	 Make a short presentation to the class about your choice. Use the example and useful 
phrases below to help you. 
… can/cannot exist in the form of a solid/gas and a liquid/plasma …	
… is both a … and a … at the same time​ …	
how ​light/sound is reflected …
​... the existence of other ... 	
This occurs when …	
​If you …, it will become …
That demonstrates …	
This experiment/research shows …
Through this, we know that …	
We can prove that …​	
​This evidence proves …
Talking about scientific phenomena
       EXAMPLE
Today, I want to talk to you about a very strange phenomenon called a non-Newtonian 
fluid. You can make it easily using equal parts of water and cornflour, like I have here. A 
non-Newtonian fluid is strange because you can pour it like a liquid, but if you put any 
pressure on it, it suddenly becomes hard as concrete. In fact, it becomes hard enough to 
stand on. Then, as soon as you take the pressure off, it becomes a liquid again. This shows 
that it is possible that something can exist as a liquid and a solid at the same time.
1	 The conversation is about the City of Science and Industry, a museum in Paris. Would you 
like to go to this museum? Why or why not?
2	 Are there any museums like this in China? What other interesting museums are there?
1    Read the texts and decide if the statements are true (T) or false (F).
Write about what makes a great scientist
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
7
THE FATHER OF CHINA’S AEROSPACE
Perhaps no other scientist has had a greater impact 
on China’s aerospace science than Qian Xuesen. 
Described by the authors of the Story of Qian 
Xuesen as a man with “great scientific thought and 
scientific spirit” who was patriotic and served his 
homeland with effort, achievement, and devotion, 
Qian was an extremely well-respected man.
Born in Shanghai in 1911, Qian attended schools 
in Beijing and then entered Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University to study Railway Mechanical 
Engineering. However, after the Songhu Battle 
broke out in 1932, Qian made the decision to 
switch his major to aviation because he realised 
that China needed its own powerful air force to 
protect and defend the country.
Qian went to the United States in 1935 to 
pursue his graduate studies. Over the course of 
the 1930s and 1940s, Qian became a pioneer 
in American jet and rocket technology. As a 
graduate assistant at the California Institute 
of Technology during the 1930s, Qian helped 
conduct important research into rocket propulsion, 

===== PAGE 15 =====
Using Language
8
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
8
A WORLD OF PURE THOUGHT
Stephen Hawking was one of the most famous 
and gifted scientists in physics. Most people are 
familiar with images of him in his wheelchair, 
unable to move and using a computer to talk. 
Since he came down with a disease which caused 
him to lose the use of most of his muscles, his 
world became one of abstract thought.
Hawking first achieved fame when he was still 
healthy enough to walk, as a graduate student 
in physics at Cambridge University in 1964. In 
general, there were two main theories on the 
origin of the universe. The first was the steady 
state theory, which holds that the universe has 
no beginning or end. The other was the big bang 
theory, which holds that the universe began at 
a single point in time and space. The biggest 
champion of the steady state concept was Fred 
and in the 1940s, he and several other people 
founded the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, now one 
of NASA’s leading space-exploration centres.
After overcoming some difficulties during his 
final few years in the US, Qian returned to China 
in 1955. He received a hero’s welcome from 
his homeland and was put in charge of not only 
developing China’s rocket science but also its 
space and missile programme. At that time, China 
was poor and its rocket science was undeveloped. 
No institute or university in China offered rocket 
science as a major, and there were no talents or 
experts in this field in China. Nevertheless, Qian 
did not let that discourage him from taking on the 
challenge. When asked “Can we Chinese possibly 
make missiles?”, his reply was a determined “Why 
not? We Chinese are able to make the same things 
that other people make.”
Under Qian’s leadership, China developed 
the Dongfeng missiles, followed by the first 
generation of Long March rockets. In 1970, 
China successfully launched its first man-made 
satellite, Dong Fang Hong I, from a Long March 
rocket. Because much of the technology behind 
the Shenzhou rockets can also be traced back to 
Qian’s research, Qian earned the name of “the 
father of China’s aerospace”.
Qian read a lot and was extremely knowledgeable, 
especially in the area of frontier science research. 
However, what might have made him such an 
outstanding and creative scientist was probably 
his strong interest in other things, such as music 
and drawing. His deep appreciation for art often 
gave him inspiration in his scientific research.
On 31 October 2009, the whole country was 
saddened by Qian’s death, and people honoured 
and remembered him in different ways.
Hoyle, a professor at Cambridge. During the 
question and answer period after one of Hoyle’s 
lectures, Hawking stood up and pointed out that 
Hoyle had made a mistake in his maths. Once 

===== PAGE 16 =====
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
9
1	
Qian changed his major because of a shift in personal interest.	
T
F
2	
Qian’s strong interest in art has a positive impact on a scientist’s development.	
T
F
3 	 When Hawking was young, almost everyone believed that the universe 
	
began with a big bang. 	
T
F
4 	 Because Hawking was determined, he was able to succeed even though 
	
he was ill. 	
T
F
2	 Answer the questions below using the information from the texts.
3	 Study the language and structure.
4	 Write an essay about the scientific spirit.
5	 Exchange your draft with a partner. Use this checklist to help you revise the draft. 
Then take your draft back and revise it using your partner’s comments.
6    Put up your essay in the classroom or read it to your class.
 Does the writer explain clearly the personal qualities that make up the scientific spirit?
 Does the writer give examples from the lives of the scientist(s) to illustrate the points?
 Does the writer describe the personality of a great scientist?
 Does the writer use appropriate linking words and phrases to tie the ideas together?
 Does the writer use separate paragraphs, each with its own function?
1	 Why was Qian called “the father of China’s aerospace”?
2	 How was Hawking’s own theory proven correct?
1	 Underline the linking words and phrases in the passages, and describe their function.
2	 What is the function of each paragraph in the passages?
3	 Find words that describe the personalities of the scientists. How do the stories about the 
scientists help illustrate these personalities?
1	 In groups, discuss some stories about great scientists.
2	 Using these stories as a basis, discuss the following questions:
	
•  Apart from being clever, what are the most important personal qualities a scientist must 
	
  have to be successful?
	
•  How do these stories illustrate the scientific spirit?
3   Now work by yourself to write an essay about the scientific spirit.
the maths was corrected, it showed that the big 
bang theory—and not the steady state theory—
was true. Hawking’s own work on the big bang 
theory was soon proven by astronomers with 
telescopes. A star was born.
So, what made Stephen Hawking a genius? 
Besides being brilliant, he was brave, though 
sometimes careless in what he said or did. He 
was willing to say what others were afraid to 
say, and to dream of what others were afraid 
to dream about. Furthermore, he was quite 
determined. This had helped him as a scientist, 
and had helped him even more in his fight against 
his disease. Above all, Hawking was willing 
to admit his faults. This odd combination of 
characteristics had made him one of the greatest 
thinkers of the 20th and 21st centuries.

===== PAGE 17 =====
2    Fill in each blank with a word or expression that introduces a predicative clause.
	 What new ideas did you learn about science and scientists from this unit?
	 What new vocabulary and structures did you learn in this unit? How well can you 
use them? Did you use any of them in your language activities?
	 Do you think the “asking questions” strategy was useful in understanding the texts?
	 What problems did you or your friends have with this unit? How did you solve the 
problems? What advice did you give each other?
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 inspiring 
 interesting 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
Science is simply 
 you can do. And doing science makes you a scientist! So, 
what do scientists do? Actually, what matters is not only 
 they observe in the 
world around them and what questions they ask, but also 
 they use evidence 
or data to answer the questions. They identify useful data and take new measurements. 
Some of the key issues that scientists face are 
 calculations they do and 
 they analyse their data to draw conclusions about the questions they ask. 
The final issue, which many believe to be the most important, is 
 they need 
to communicate their results. This is 
 they want everyone to benefit from their 
work! It seems 
 science is all around us. You see, by doing science, scientists 
get a better understanding of the world around them and share that understanding with the 
whole world. 
Assessing Your Progress
1    Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words below.
brilliant  solid  microscope  finding  contradictory  gift  astronomer  theory
The scientist’s main task is to discover how things work in the universe. But few scientists have 
placed themselves under the 
. So even though the 
 scientific method, 
which mainly includes hypotheses, data collection, and statistical analysis, is written down, the 
method by which scientists come to 
 conclusions is hard to identify. Two of the 
essential qualities a scientist needs to have seem to be curiosity and creativity. People who are 
curious usually have a mixture of seemingly 
 desires: They are looking for originality 
and yet they also want everything in its proper place. To settle the conflict between statistics and 
, scientists often have to be creative, and think outside the box—approach the problem 
from different directions. They must have a vivid imagination and a strong intuition in order for new 
 to be made. It echoes something the 
 Carl Sagan once said. He believes 
that every child “starts out as a scientist” and every child is 
 with the “sense of wonder 
and awe”.
10
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS

===== PAGE 18 =====
1	 Discuss these questions in groups.
•  What is the purpose of each invention?
•  Why is the invention unusual?
2	 Choose one of the inventions, and brainstorm as many reasons as you can to explain 
how and why the invention is useful.
3	 Divide the following tasks within your group:
• write down ideas for the invention	
• serve as the presenter for the product/invention
• make props and pictures for the invention
*Project: Think outside the box
In this project, you are going to create an unusual invention.
4    Create your product and present it to your class.
5    As a class, vote on the best product/invention.
EXAMPLE
Presenter: 	Does your goldfish suffer from low self-confidence? Is he afraid to go out into deep 
water? Do female goldfish refuse to return his calls? Then you can buy him our new 
Goldfish Shark-Fin! For just 999 yuan,  you can turn your goldfish into a real go-
getter!
Woman: 	 Since I bought the Goldfish Shark-Fin for my Henry, he has turned into a new fish! 
Now he swims with the big fish! I’m so proud of him!
Presenter: 	You too can change the life of your fish! For just 999 yuan! Hurry! Buy it today!
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
11
Most great scientists have the ability to see the world in ways that other people do not, and 
to come up with new ideas that other people have never thought of. In many cases, this has 
caused other people to think that they are crazy at first. However, that thinking ability is 
important to their creative process. 

===== PAGE 19 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
What do you think you will see in the video? Tick the items that you think will 
be mentioned.	
□ airplane​	
□ butterfly​	
□ city	
□ computer
□ diver​	
□ frog​	
□ horse​	
□ polar bear
□ ship​	
□ submarine​	
□ volcano​	
□ whale
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1   Check your answers from Before You Watch.
2   Complete these quotes with the words you hear in the video.
	
1	 ​Emily Ainsworth: “It’s part of human nature to 
 and to 
 
about the world.”
	
2​	 Juan Martinez: “It’s where you find 
, where you find new things, 
.”
	
3​	 Lee Berger: “We think we know 
, but we don’t. We think we know 
, but we don’t. We think we understand 
, but we don’t.”
	
4​	 Catherine Workman: “ 
 what’s out there, 
 what’s out there.”
	
5​	 Cory Richards: “And if we have more to care about, then we engage more fully 
 
and more fully 
, and we act—you know—
.”
3   Match the descriptions on the left with the words on the right.
	
1	 ​a first flight​	
A	 ​fish
	
2	 ​used to explore an inaccessible place​	
B	 frog
	
3	 ​a new species	
​C	 polar bear
	
4	 ​eight new species​	
D	 ​butterfly with a tag
	
5	 ​a natural alarm clock	
E	 drone
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	 ​Of the explorations in the video, which seems the most important? Which seems the most 
interesting? Why?
2	 ​Why is it important to explore, in your opinion?
3​	 How would you like to explore our world? Why?
Why Is It Important to Explore?
Some scientists, researchers, and explorers were 
asked the question, “Why is it important to explore?” 
This video gives their answers.
* Video Time
12
UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS

===== PAGE 20 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
I am not the same, having 
seen the moon shine on the 
other side of the world.
—Mary Anne Radmacher
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about Xie Lei’s experience on an 
exchange programme in London.
2  listen to and talk about Chinese language 
learning abroad.
3  write about your opinions on studying 
abroad.
4  learn about one of the first Chinese 
students who studied abroad.
    Look and discuss
1  Where do you think the girl on the left is 
from?
2  Where do you think she is studying now?
3  How do you think her life differs from 
that in her home country?
BRIDGING 
CULTURES
UNIT 2
13

===== PAGE 21 =====
Reading and Thinking
14