UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
2	 Read the article and work 
with a partner to analyse 
the structures in the 
underlined sentences. 
Use the tip for help.
Read about Xie Lei’s experience on an exchange programme 
1	 Before you read, look at the title and picture below. Where do you think this 
article is from? What do you think the article is about?
Understand long sentences
English structures are different from those in Chinese, but you 
can figure out what a long sentence means by following a few 
simple steps.
1	 Decide if the sentence is compound (look for and, but, or, 
etc.) or complex (look for who, when, where, etc.).
2	 Find the main clause if it is a complex sentence.
3	 Look for modifiers.
Six months ago, 19-year-old Xie Lei said goodbye 
to her family and friends and boarded a plane for 
London. It was the first time that she had left China. 
“I was very excited but also quite nervous. I didn’t 
know what to expect,” Xie Lei recalled.
Xie Lei is studying for a business qualification at a 
university in China and has come to our university 
on a year-long exchange programme. “I chose the 
exchange programme because I wanted to learn 
about global business and improve my English. 
My ambition is to set up a business in China after 
graduation,” she explained.
At first, Xie Lei had to adapt to life in a different 
country. “You have to get used to a whole new 
life,” she said. “I had to learn how to use public 
transport and how to ask for things I didn’t know 
the English names for. When I got lost, I had to ask 
passers-by for help, but people here speak fast 
and use words I’m not familiar with. I ask them to 
repeat themselves a lot!”
Although some foreign students live in campus 
accommodation, Xie Lei chose to live with a host 
family, who can help with her adaptation to the 
new culture. “When I miss home, I feel comforted 
to have a second family,” Xie Lei said. “When 
there’s something I don’t know or understand, I 
can ask them. They are also keen to learn about 
China. Laura, the daughter of my host family, wants 
to study in China in the future. We take turns to 
cook each evening. They really love my stir-fried 
tomatoes and eggs! Laura says she always feels 
hungry when she smells it, so I taught her how to 
cook it, too.”
Another challenge for Xie Lei is the academic 
requirements. The first time that she had to write 
an essay, her tutor explained that she must 
acknowledge what other people had said if she 
cited their ideas, but that he mainly wanted to know 
what she thought! Xie Lei was confused because 
she thought she knew less than other people. Her 
tutor advised her to read lots of information in order 
to form a wise opinion of her own.
BUSINESS 
STUDENT 
BUILDING 
BRIDGES
“WELCOME, 
XIE LEI!”

===== PAGE 22 =====
excited    nervous    comforted    confused    surprised    confident    feel at home
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
15
3	 Why did Xie Lei have the following feelings during her year studying abroad? 
Make sentences using “Xie Lei felt/feels … because …” according to the 
article.
4	 Take notes on what you read in the article by filling in the table.
5	 Discuss the following questions in groups.
Challenges
What Xie Lei did
Daily life
adaptation to a whole new life
learnt to 
;
learnt to 
;
asked for 
loneliness
lived with 
Academic 
requirements
writing an essay
got help from 
;
 a lot to prepare
participating in 
and giving 
gave presentation on 
1	 Why did Xie Lei choose the exchange programme?
2	 Why has Xie Lei got involved in social activities?
3	 How has Xie Lei helped to build bridges between China and the UK?
4	 What other challenges do you think students studying abroad might face? How can 
students prepare to handle these challenges before going abroad?
Xie Lei also found many courses included 
students’ participation in class as part of the final 
result. Students need to generate ideas, offer 
examples, apply concepts, and raise questions, 
as well as give presentations. At first, Xie Lei had 
no idea what she should say, but what surprised 
her was that she found herself speaking up in 
class after just a few weeks. “My presentation 
on traditional Chinese art was a great success, 
which boosted my confidence,” she said. “I’ll use 
these skills back home for presentations. They’ll 
help me build a strong business in the future.” 
Now halfway through her exchange year, Xie Lei 
feels much more at home in the UK. What seemed 
strange before now appears quite normal to her. 
“Engaging in British culture has helped,” she said. 
“As well as studying hard, I’ve been involved 
in social activities. British people are fascinated 
by our culture and eager to learn more about it, 
so I’m keen to share my culture with them. While 
I’m learning about business, I’m also acting as a 
cultural messenger building a bridge between us.”
We will follow Xie Lei’s progress in later editions, 
but for now, we wish her all the best.

===== PAGE 23 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary 
1	 Think of a word that best fits 
each definition and complete the 
crossword puzzle. 
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words from the unit. 
The first letter of each word is given.
3	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words in the box. How 
did the student’s life change when studying abroad for the first time?
ambitious    recall    qualification    accommodation    feel at home
1	 to remember sth
2	 to accept, admit, or recognise sth or the 
truth/existence of sth
3	 the process of changing sth or yourself 
to suit a new situation
4	 to make sb feel less worried or unhappy
5	 a strong desire to achieve sth
6	 an exam you have passed or a course 
you have successfully completed
7	 to mention sth as an example
8	 containing many different parts and often 
difficult to understand
9	 to be actively involved with sth
1	 Despite his poor living conditions, he remained actively e
 in his scientific 
research.
2	 As an outgoing girl, she was always ready to p
 in the activities her college 
offered.
3	 Actively getting i
 in various social activities is the best way to overcome 
culture shock.
4	 “I used to study in this university twenty years ago, and there were not many international 
students then,” my tutor r
.
5	 A
 to a new culture can be difficult. However, you need to step out of your 
comfort zone. Remember: When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
A year ago, I came to the University of Birmingham to obtain a business 
. Since 
then I’ve been living in university 
 with other international students, which allows 
me to meet people from diverse cultural backgrounds.
The first few weeks there were absolutely overwhelming because everything was so different 
compared to things back home. I felt confused and lost. I also suffered from homesickness, 
 all sorts of things back home—from my mother’s cooking to the neighbour’s dog 
I used to walk.
Gradually, I adapted to my new life as an international student. I got familiar with the place—the 
local shops, clubs, and parks. I made friends and became more confident in my studies day by 
day. I started 
 in this new environment. I became more motivated, and I’m also a 
lot more 
 now! I feel that coming here was the best decision I have ever made. 
1
5
3
2
6
7
4
8
9
16
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES

===== PAGE 24 =====
Discover useful structures
1	 Study the sentences below and mark the noun clauses. What is the function 
of each noun clause in the sentences?
1	 What seemed strange before now appears quite normal to Xie Lei.
2	 What surprised Xie Lei was that she found herself speaking up in class after just a few 
weeks.
3	 It’s important that Xie Lei keeps a balance between her studies and her social life.
2	 Combine each pair of sentences using the words in brackets.
1	 The advisor talked about maintaining reasonable expectations when studying abroad. His 
words were quite helpful to May. (what)
2	 Students have to write countless research papers as part of their coursework. This was not 
something that Chen Hao was ready for. (that)
3	 Who will be the successful applicant for the summer job at the law firm? This is the 
question. (who)
4	 Exposure to another culture and its people can give exchange students great insights into 
the world. This is an advantage of studying abroad. (that)
5	 Schools in the States are quite multicultural, with students and teachers from many different 
ethnic backgrounds. This impressed Liu Yang. (It … that)
6	 Should she stick to her own way of life or follow the American way? This is her confusion. 
(whether) 
3	 Complete the passage with A–D from the box. What other things do you think 
might attract international students to China?
After just a few months in China, Leon, an exchange student from 
Germany, says that he has fallen in love with Chinese culture. 
 was the Chinese food. He couldn’t believe 
how many different kinds of Chinese food there are! Something 
else he found impressive was 
. Then there’s
China’s colourful culture, from art to music, and from calligraphy 
to literature. 
 remains an important goal 
for him, as he is truly fascinated by it. Leon is also amazed by the 
convenience of cashless payments in China. He can go outside 
without any need for cash—all he needs is his mobile phone! The biggest reason why he loves 
China, however, is 
. He has made great friends here—friends that he 
will still remember long after his departure. 
4	 Work in pairs and take turns to talk about Xie Lei’s experience by completing 
the following sentences with your own words.
1	 That … made Xie Lei confused at first.
2	 It surprised Xie Lei that …
3	 What Xie Lei’s tutor wanted to say was that …
4	 The motivation for Xie Lei to study abroad was that …
A  that he enjoys being with Chinese people 
B  How he can learn to appreciate it more deeply
C  What impressed him first 
D  that people can eat almost everything with chopsticks
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
17

===== PAGE 25 =====
Using Language
1    Before you listen, talk with your partner. 
1	
What do you know about Chinese language learning abroad? 
2	
How do people from other countries find out about Chinese culture? 
2    Listen to the conversation and answer the 
following questions.
4    Answer the questions according to what you remember of the conversation.
5    Imagine you’re interviewing a student at a Confucius Institute in another 
country about his or her experience. Work with a partner to brainstorm what 
the interviewer might ask and how the student might answer. Then role-play 
the interview. Use the phrases and questions in the box to help you. 
3    Listen again and take notes by filling in the poster below.
Talk about Chinese language learning abroad
When you listen, always ask yourself, 
“Where is this probably happening?” 
Understanding the setting will help 
you understand the type and content 
of the communication more clearly.
Pay attention to the setting
1	
Where does this conversation take place?
2	
Who are the people speaking?
3	
What are they talking about?
1	
What made Aisha feel like she was part of Ms Hu’s family?
2	
Why did Aisha want to become a teacher?
3	
Why do students learning Chinese see it as beneficial to their future?
We are pleased to welcome …
Thanks for joining us.
Tell us more about …
Thanks for your time.
It was a pleasure talking with you.
What was your biggest challenge? 
How did you overcome it?
What are you keen on?
What is the key to your success?
What do you feel is your biggest achievement?
Interviewing someone
Welcome to the Confucius Institute.
Learn to 
 and all about 
!
Our institute has grown! We started with 
 but now we have many more.
It is a centre for 
. You can learn and practise fascinating Chinese traditions.
Knowledge of the Chinese language and culture is important because of increasing 
. Many students go on to great jobs in 
.
Join us today to help break down language and 
, and bring the world 
together!
18
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES

===== PAGE 26 =====
Listening and Speaking
2    Listen to the conversation above and underline the weak forms the speakers 
used. Then practise the conversation with your partner. 
       EXAMPLE
A:	 Hi, Jane. Welcome to the show!
B:	 Thanks for inviting me.
A:	 Tell us, what was your biggest challenge in 
learning Chinese at the beginning?
B:	 Well, I suppose it was difficult to grasp the tones 
at first.
A:	 I bet! Did joining the Confucius Institute help 
overcome this problem?
B:	 Absolutely! Getting involved with Chinese 
cultural activities there definitely helped a lot …
  
Pronunciation
1    Read the conversation and answer the questions: What problem is Lu Yao 
having? What may be the cause of the problem? How can he solve his problem? 
Lu Yao:	
Excuse me, Miss Conner. I’m having a problem with this English listening 
task. Some words are pronounced really fast and sound different.
Miss Conner: 	 Oh, let me listen ... Yes, that’s probably because the words are not being 
stressed. You see, English is a stress-based language.  
Lu Yao:	
So does this mean I need to know which words are stressed and which are 
not? 
Miss Conner: 	 Yes, I’m afraid so. English words have a strong form and a weak form. 
Words like pronouns, articles, prepositions, and so on are often not 
stressed. So we usually use the weak form for them when we speak.
Lu Yao:	
Oh no. When I speak, I worry people won’t understand me, so I always try 
to pronounce all my words really clearly. No wonder my classmates say I 
sound like a robot! 
Miss Conner: 	 Oh dear! Well, I suggest you pay more attention to the weak forms. For 
example, in the sentence “Are you studying hard?”, the words “are” and 
“you” are pronounced as /ə/ and /jə/.  
Lu Yao:	
Oh, I get it. Thanks, Miss Conner.  
Miss Conner: 	 You’re welcome. I also suggest you watch some movies and study how 
the weak forms are used.
Lu Yao:	
That’s great advice, Miss Conner! I’m going to watch a movie right now. 
Thanks again! Bye!
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
19

===== PAGE 27 =====
Using Language
1	 A local newspaper has invited parents to share their opinions about studying 
abroad. Read these two letters and underline each writer’s main points. Then 
mark the reasons for their opinions.
Express your opinions on studying abroad
20
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
Dear Editor, 
In the past few decades, there has been a dramatic 
increase in the number of people studying abroad. 
Although studying abroad can bring great benefits, I 
think the disadvantages for young people are greater.
To begin with, many students who study abroad face 
great economic pressure. That means studying abroad 
is just not possible for everyone. Tuition fees and living 
expenses are much more expensive than at home and 
could end up costing most families an arm and a leg. 
Studying in China is much more convenient and can 
help save money.
Another important factor to consider is the 
tremendous pressure that comes with studying 
abroad. Students must learn how to live in an 
unfamiliar environment with limited language skills. 
Some may struggle and suffer from culture shock 
when learning how to behave in new surroundings. 
Other students are not mature enough to handle 
the challenges by themselves and may become 
depressed. Some students might even encounter 
problems with personal safety. In addition, different 
approaches to teaching and learning may come as a 
shock to many students.
A final point to consider is that while studying 
abroad does have potential benefits, young people 
who study in China also have a great future to look 
forward to! As China has boomed, the educational 
environment has improved significantly, with many 
great universities now available. They have great 
facilities and outstanding professors, helping to educate 
young people who will contribute to the economy and 
further strengthen our country.
To sum up, one cannot deny the fact that studying 
abroad has its disadvantages, so when you think about 
studying abroad, you should consider these many 
factors.
Kind regards,
Wang Li (mother of twin girls)
Dear Editor, 
Is studying abroad a good idea or not? There 
are certainly disadvantages, but in my opinion, the 
advantages are much greater. As I always tell my son, 
there are no great difficulties for a person who is brave, 
optimistic, and willing to work hard!
The first advantage of studying abroad is personal 
growth. The education you gain and the experiences 
you have will change you for the better. For example, 
you will certainly become more independent because 
you will have to deal with all kinds of difficulties by 
yourself. Studying abroad also helps you to gain a global 
perspective and improve your general competence. 
Another advantage is the increased chance for cultural 
exchange. Chinese students can be seen as cultural envoys 
promoting friendship between nations. International 
students in China also bring their colourful cultures 
here. Cooperating with people from diverse cultural 
backgrounds helps us view the world from different angles 
and thus gives us more insight into our own culture.
Finally, studying abroad provides a great opportunity 
to contribute to the development of our motherland. 
China’s global outlook, with projects such as the Belt 
and Road Initiative, has helped us make connections 
across the world. Therefore, China needs more talented 
young people with a global perspective who are 
highly competent with languages, have leadership and 
organisational skills, and have strong cultural awareness. 
Students who study abroad will develop such skills and 
abilities, and these in turn will provide them with better 
career opportunities.
All in all, studying abroad helps to build character 
and increase people’s understanding of cultural diversity 
while strengthening China and building a shared future 
for all. I think this life-changing experience is certainly 
worthwhile, and I hope my child will study abroad in the 
future.
Sincerely yours,
Zhang Yi (father of one boy)
STUDYING ABROAD: IS IT A GOOD OR A BAD IDEA?

===== PAGE 28 =====
2	 Read the letters again and then use the connectors in the box to rewrite the 
sentences below.
3    Discuss the following questions with your partner.
4    Analyse the argumentative letters.
5	 Write a letter to the editor expressing your own opinions about studying abroad.
When you write an 
argumentative piece, use 
connecting phrases to lead 
readers through your process 
of reasoning. Good logical 
connectors will help your 
audience understand your point 
of view, whether they agree 
with you or not!
Use connectors
Point of view:
in my opinion        as far as I know   
as far as I am concerned
personally (speaking)
Summary:
in short         to sum up        all in all 
in conclusion/summary   
generally speaking
Restating: 
in other words        that is to say   
that means
Connectors expressing opinion
Listing: 
  to begin with        what is more  
  besides        moreover        
    in addition
Cause & effect: 
  because        as        so        thus
  therefore        as a result
Giving examples: 
  for example        for instance        
    such as
Connectors expressing 
reasons or evidence
1	
Students who want to study abroad must consider their parents’ budget. They should think 
about whether they can afford the costs of studying overseas. 
2	
Studying abroad can put great pressure on young people. They may feel lonely and miss their 
families.
3	
Studying abroad will give students a good education. It also helps them to gain a global 
perspective. 
4	
Global development strategies help to make connections between China and the rest of the 
world. Young people with language skills and strong cultural awareness are needed.  
1	
What are some other advantages or disadvantages of studying abroad that were not mentioned 
in the letters?
2	
​Which parent would you probably side with? Why?
1	
Mark the parts of the argument in the letters.
	
A  Start with a question or a fact. 
	
B  State an opinion. 
	
C  Give reasons and evidence to support an opinion. 
	
D  State a conclusion. 
2	
Underline the connectors in the letters. Then study the words in the boxes below.
as a result    besides    for instance    that is to say
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
21

===== PAGE 29 =====
1	 Rewrite the sentences with the correct forms of the words or phrases in brackets.
1  	 He is still too young to know how to act and talk on such occasions. (mature, behave) 
2  	 I have to admit that I spent too much time on social activities. (deny, take up)
3  	 If you care for others sincerely, they will come to trust you, and your relationship will grow 
stronger. (strengthen, gradually)
4  	 She considered the current situation in a reasonable way and decided to be positive about 
the outcome. (logically, optimistic)
5  	 Most of the people who had applied for this position were turned down, but he stood out 
because he was good at working with others. (applicant, cooperate)
6  	 The mother worried about her daughter who was studying abroad in a totally new 
environment, but she felt less anxious because of the fact that people there were friendly and 
helpful. (surroundings, take comfort in) 
2	 Match the phrases or clauses below to make complete sentences.
Assessing Your Progress
	 What have you learnt in this unit about the benefits of cultural exchange?
	 What do you think are some of the differences between studying in your own country 
and studying abroad?
	 If there are overseas students visiting your school, can you use what you have learnt 
to communicate with them?
	 Overall, I thought this unit was 
 cool 
 helpful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
1	 My suggestion for avoiding any cultural 
misunderstanding is …
2	 No matter which country you go to, you will 
end up feeling like an outsider. That …
3	 What he said about the school was …
4	 Taking a year off from school to travel 
abroad is …
5	 What I saw when I arrived was …
6	 That he was forgetting his mother tongue …
7	 Why the school denied his application is …
8	 Perhaps the most obvious challenge of 
studying abroad is … 
9	 I’m afraid …
10	 It remains to be seen …
A	 beyond description.
B	 perfectly true.
C	 that you have to overcome the language 
barrier.
D	 still unknown.
E	 that I don’t know how to acknowledge 
all the sources in my research paper 
correctly.
F	 that you should observe what others do 
and how they do it.
G	 what’s generally called a gap year.
H	 is probably why many people do not want 
to live abroad.
 I	
whether my research paper will be well 
received.
J	 worried him a bit.
22
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES

===== PAGE 30 =====
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES
23
1    Brainstorm what the visiting students might need to know about your school.
2	 Divide up the work among your group members so that one or two students are 
responsible for each topic. Make a page for each topic and include photos or 
pictures. If possible, include a map of your school to show how to get around.
3	 Decide on a good order for the information and then put the pages together. 
Improve the design of the booklet if necessary.
4	 Make an attractive cover page for your booklet by including a few descriptive 
sentences and a good picture or two.
Location of school
History of school
School motto
School rules
Special events
Compulsory courses 
and elective courses
Clubs
Other
NO. 5 
HIGH SCHOOL
AN INTRODUCTION 
TO OUR SCHOOL
SCHOOL MOTTO
SPORTS MEET
The best preparation for tomorrow is 
doing your best today.
ART 
FESTIVAL
CLUBS
*Project: Tell visiting students about your school
Suppose a group of exchange students are coming from Australia to study in your school for a 
year. Work in groups and help your headmaster to design a booklet about your school.

===== PAGE 31 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
What do you think the foreign students in the video enjoy most about China? 
Tick the items that you think will be mentioned.
□ calligraphy	
□ fast delivery service	
□ food	
□ history
□ language	
□ music	
□ online shopping	
□ kung fu
□ poems	
□ scenic spots	
□ folk art 	
□ Peking Opera
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1   Fill in the table with information about each person. 
Student
Country
What impressed him/her
Karim
Kathy
Stella
Anthony
2   Complete these quotes with the words you hear in the video.
1	 I think calligraphy is a wonderful expression of 
 and 
.
2	 I especially like 
. You can figure out every character’s personality 
and status through 
 and 
!
3	 I’ve found that almost everything in Chinese culture is connected to 
. 
When I do tai chi, I feel 
 come over me.
4	 They told me that in China, people won’t 
 without these noodles, 
because long noodles represent 
. 	
  	
        	  	
	
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	
Imagine that your family is hosting an international student. What would you want to share 
with him/her about China?
2	
If you had a chance to go overseas as an international student, which country would you 
go to? Why?
International Students in China
In this video, we talk to four international 
students, Karim, Kathy, Stella, and Anthony, 
about their time in China.
* Video Time
24
UNIT 2  BRIDGING CULTURES

===== PAGE 32 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
3
UNIT 
FOOD AND
CULTURE
Food brings people together on many 
different levels. It’s nourishment of the 
soul and body; it’s truly love.
—Giada De Laurentiis 
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about the culture and cuisine in China.
2  listen to and talk about how to order food in 
Chinese and American restaurants.
3  write about one’s own diet.
4  explore the farm-to-table trend.
    Look and discuss
1	Where do you think this photo was taken? 
What is happening in this photo?
2	Have you ever visited this place or a place 
like it? What was it like?
3	What kind of lives do these people lead? 
How are their lives similar to or different 
from that of your own?
25
25

===== PAGE 33 =====
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
Understand the link between food and culture
2	 The first paragraph has a quote: “You are what you eat.” In pairs, discuss what 
you think this saying means. Then read the article to see if you share the same 
ideas as the author.
1	 How many kinds of Chinese cuisine are there, and how can these cuisines be described?
2	 What, if anything, do these cuisines tell you about the people who eat them?   
26