UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
CULTURE AND CUISINE
The French author Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin once wrote, “Tell me what you eat, and I will tell 
you what you are.” Put more simply, this means “You are what you eat.” Most people today relate this 
saying to healthy eating. However, Brillat-Savarin was actually referring to our personality, character, 
and culture. 
Certainly, in many ways this seems to be true. Chinese cuisine is a case in point. 
Prior to coming to China, my only experience with Chinese cooking was in 
America, with Chinese food that had been changed to suit American tastes. 
For example, America’s most popular Chinese dish is General Tso’s chicken, 
which consists of fried chicken covered in a sweet sauce, flavoured with hot red 
peppers. This is probably not an authentic Chinese recipe, however, so it cannot 
tell us much about the Chinese. On the other hand, it does tell us a lot about 
Americans. It tells us, for example, that Americans love bold, simple flavours. And, since the dish was also 
invented recently, it tells us that Americans are not afraid to try new foods. 
Later, I had a chance to experience authentic Chinese food by coming to China. When my family and I 
had just arrived in China, we went looking for a good place to eat in Beijing. A Sichuan restaurant had 
been recommended to us by a friend, and finally, we found it. Tired, hungry, and not knowing a word of 
Chinese, we had no idea how to order, so the chef just began filling our table with the best food we had 
ever eaten. With this, we had the pleasure of experiencing an entirely new taste: Sichuan peppercorns. 
The food was wonderful and different, but what was even more important was the friendship offered us.
We soon moved to Shandong Province in the eastern part of North China. My favourite dish there was 
boiled dumplings served with vinegar. I observed that family is important to the people there. It has 
become a favourite traditional dish of the people in North China, where making dumplings has always 
been a family affair with everyone—from the youngest to the oldest—joining in to help. Later, I learnt 
that the most famous food in Shandong is pancake rolls stuffed with sliced Chinese green onions. 
Then we moved to northern Xinjiang. Some of our friends were Kazak and Inner Mongolian. These 
groups traditionally wandered the open range on horses. As a result, their traditional foods are what you 
can cook over an open fire—usually boiled or roasted meat, such as lamb kebab. 

===== PAGE 34 =====
3	 Use the information from the text to complete the table below. 
4	 Match the 
causes to the 
effects below. 
Then find more 
examples from 
the text.
5	 Discuss the following questions in groups.
Place
Kind of Chinese food
Typical dish
People or culture
America
Beijing
Shandong
Northwest China
South China
Central China
Understand cause and effect
Sometimes two ideas are related to each other by cause and effect. That is, one thing 
causes something else to happen. Cause-and-effect relationships can be direct. For 
example, “It was raining, so I took my umbrella.” However, some cause-and-effect 
relationships are not direct, and some may also have more than one cause or effect.
 1	 Do you think “culture and cuisine go hand in hand”? Give your reasons.
 2	 Imagine that it is true that people’s personalities are closely linked to the foods they eat. 
What does eating the following foods tell you about a person?
spicy food  vegetarian food  junk food  seafood  sweets  chocolate  rice  noodles
onion  garlic  bacon  ham  sausage  cabbage  mushroom  bean curd
Cause
1	 The flavour preferences of Americans 
often differ from those of the Chinese.
2	 We had no idea how to order food. 
3	 These groups traditionally wandered 
the open range on horses. 
Effect
A	 The chef just began filling our table 
with the best food we had ever eaten.
B	 Their traditional foods are what you 
can cook over an open fire.
C	 Chinese food in America is changed to 
suit American tastes.
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
27
Our travels then took us to South China, and then on to central China. In each place we went, we 
experienced wonderful local dishes, from Guangdong’s elegant dim sum—small servings of food in 
bamboo steamers—to the exceptional stewed noodles in Henan. Everywhere, the food was as varied 
as the people. However, one thing is always true: Through food, Chinese people everywhere show 
friendship and kindness. 
At a minimum, the kinds of food local people consume tell us what they grow in their region, what 
kinds of lives they lead, and what they like and do not like. Could we also say, for example, that those 
who like bold flavours are bold themselves? Or, that those who like spicy food tend to have a hot 
temper? Maybe. Maybe not. What we can say, however, is that culture and cuisine go hand in hand, and 
if you do not experience one, you can never really know the other.

===== PAGE 35 =====
Learning About Language
1	 Find words from the reading passage which have similar meaning to the words 
in italics.
2	 Learn more about foods around the world by matching the first and second 
halves of the following sentences.
3	 Familiarise yourself with some food idioms by matching the meaning on the 
right with the coloured words on the left.
Build up your vocabulary
A	 a piece of sausage for her dinner. 
B	 an appetiser, a main course, soup, and 
dessert. 
C	 which have all contributed to centuries of 
cuisine development.
A	 completely flat
B	 something that is very easy 
to do
C	 an issue that is hard to deal 
with
D	 to include large numbers of 
something
E	 to earn one’s living to 
support a family
F	 wealthy 
G	 to rapidly increase in 
number
H	 an actor who performs 
badly, especially by 
overemphasising emotions
1	 Italy, Greece, and Spain are famous 
for their olives, figs, and other 
ingredients,
2	 She sliced off
3	 A traditional Western dinner can 
consist of
1	 Public concern for the health of farm animals has 
mushroomed in the UK.
2	 Anderson may be young but he’s certainly rolling 
in dough!
3	 George is a popular lecturer. He often peppers his 
speech with jokes.
4	 As the person to bring home the bacon, he needs 
to find a stable job.
5	 He is often regarded as a ham actor for his 
overemphasised facial expressions.
6	 The media reported that these companies had 
treated pollution as a hot potato.
7	 Don’t worry about the test tomorrow. It’s going to 
be a piece of cake!
8	 It’s best to fold the swimming ring when it is as flat 
as a pancake.
1	 We’ll need ten months at least to have the restaurant decorated.
2	 Some traditional Chinese dishes from before the Ming Dynasty are still popular today.
3	 My grandpa’s breakfast mainly includes wholegrain biscuits and a glass of milk.
4	 People in this area would eat nearly a kilo of cheese per week.   
5	 We enjoyed a special dinner in a fancy restaurant where the waiters all wore attractive suits.
6	 He prefers this brand of coffee which, as he said, has an unusually good flavour. 
28
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE

===== PAGE 36 =====
3	 Work in pairs. Choose one of these three situations, and make as many 
sentences as you can using the past perfect tense and the past perfect passive 
voice. Then make a conversation using these sentences.
1	 Look at the two pairs of sentences, paying attention to the meaning and use of the 
past perfect tense and the past perfect passive voice.  
1	 The chef had set up a farm-to-table restaurant before his new cookbook was published.
	
A new farm-to-table restaurant had been set up by the chef before his new cookbook was 
published. 
2	 They had finished their dinner by the time Sam joined them.
	
Their dinner had been finished by the time Sam joined them.
	
Find more sentences using the past perfect tense or the past perfect passive voice 
from this unit. 
2	 Complete the two conversations with the correct forms of the words in the box 
using the past perfect tense or the past perfect passive voice.
cancel    eat    finish    get    taste    tell
Discover useful structures 
1	 Carol:	
 you ever 
 any Scottish food before your trip to St 	
	
	
Andrews last year?
	
Paul: 	 No, not really. But I 
 about haggis many times before we went there.
	
Carol: 	Oh … Did you try it?
	
Paul: 	 Oh, yes! You know what? We arrived late for supper that day, and so we just ate 
                 	 whatever was left in the university canteen. We 
 our meal before we 
	
	
learnt we  
 just 
 haggis! 
	
Carol: 	My goodness!
	
Paul: 	 Well, it was not bad. I have to say …                        
2	 Carol: 	When I got to the teahouse yesterday, I found nobody there. 
 it 
	
	
?
	
Paul: 	 Oh, I’m so sorry that I forgot to tell you! The get-together was cancelled yesterday 
	
	
morning because Sally, the hostess, 
 into a car accident. 
	
Carol: 	Oh, I’m sorry to hear that. Hope Sally recovers soon!
EXAMPLE
1	 When I set off for the 
cafeteria … 
2	 Before he went into the 
chocolate factory …  
3	 By the time I arrived at 
the “insect” party …
… I had just finished my 
homework.
… I had ordered a taxi online. 
… the windows had been closed. 
… the light had been switched off.
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
29

===== PAGE 37 =====
Using Language
Order food together with a foreign friend
1	 Match the dishes below to their English names. Then in groups, discuss what you 
know about these dishes, including what they contain and how they are made.
Preview
Listening is often combined with some sort of 
picture or text. If you preview the picture or 
text before you listen, it will help you better 
understand what you hear. 
A	 hand-torn cabbage
B	 bridge tofu
C	 dry pot duck with golden buns
D	 steamed fish head covered with chillies
1
3
4
2
2	 In groups, discuss the menu below. 
1	 What kind of restaurant is it and what kinds of food are served?
2	 Which dishes would you recommend to a foreigner? Why?
Pearl meatballs 
珍珠丸子	
26 元
Hand-torn cabbage 
手撕包菜	
18 元
Bridge tofu 
过桥豆腐	
18 元
Mushroom soup   
菌菇汤 
  22 元
Vegetable soup 
蔬菜汤	
18 元
Red braised pork
红烧肉	
42 元
Dry pot chicken
干锅鸡 
32 元
Dry pot duck with golden 
buns
干锅炒鸭金黄杂粮包 
38 元
Steamed fish head 
covered with chillies  
剁椒鱼头	
48 元
Steamed preserved meat 
腊味合蒸	
38 元
MENU
菜单
6
7
30
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE

===== PAGE 38 =====
Can I help you?​	
Are you ready to order, sir/madam?
I’ll take your order in a minute.​	
What would you like ...?
What should I order?​	
What would you suggest/recommend?
Why don’t you order ...?​	
You could order ...
Do you have ...?​	
You might like …​
How about ordering ...?​	
Why not ...?
You should have/try ...​	
You’ll like it because ...​
This restaurant has the best ...​	
Right now, ... is in season.
It will cool you down/warm you up.​	
I’d like ...​/I’ll have ...
Anything else, please?​	
Enjoy your meal!
Can I have the bill, please?​	
Here’s your bill./Here you are.
How will you pay?​	
Do you accept credit cards?
I’ll pay in cash/through my mobile phone/by credit card.
Here’s your change. Thank you for your coming. Goodbye.
3	 Tingting, Anna, and Lisa are at the Hunan Restaurant. Listen to their conversation 
and tick the dishes that they order in the menu above.
4	 Listen again and answer the questions.
5	 In groups of three, discuss what types of restaurant you would like to take a foreign 
visitor to, and why. Then take turns role-playing taking your foreign guest to the 
restaurant you have chosen. One of you should act as the foreign guest, one as the 
Chinese host, and one as the waiter or waitress. You may start like this:
1	 How is Hunan cuisine somewhat different from Sichuan cuisine?
2	 What are the reasons why Hunan people like spicy food?
3	 Why do so many people love steamed fish head covered with chillies?
4	 Why does Tingting recommend bridge tofu instead of dry pot duck with golden buns?
5	 Why is red braised pork the most famous dish?
       EXAMPLE
A:	 I really love spicy food, so what dish 
would you recommend?
B:	 I suggest Mapo tofu.
A:	 Really? What’s that?
…
B:	 Waiter!
C:	 May I take your order?
Ordering food
Paying the bill
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
31

===== PAGE 39 =====
WORKBOOK
Using Language
1	 Read the passage and then match the subheadings with the paragraphs. 
There is much debate nowadays as to what makes up a healthy diet. For example, scientists have 
insisted for years that a big enemy of health is fatty food. However, there is increasing evidence 
that the real driver of poor health is not so much fatty food, as it is sugar. Heart disease is the 
number one killer of Americans. And in America, people who receive 25% of their daily calories 
or more through sugar are twice as likely to die from heart disease than people who receive less 
than 10% a day (Journal of the American Medical Association, 2014). This is true regardless of 
how healthy the rest of their diet might be. Put more simply, while people continue to argue over 
whether or not fatty food is dangerous, we already know that sugar is a killer. 
Much of this extra sugar comes from sweets and sweet drinks. The average American gets 1/3 
of his or her sugar through sweet drinks alone. The American Heart Association recommends 
that we limit ourselves to less than 100–150 calories a day from sugar, which is less than what is 
usually contained in one can of sweet drink or in a single candy bar. In other words, if you want 
to be healthy, you have to cut down on desserts, and cut out sweet drinks altogether. 
Beyond this, you can keep healthy by consuming different categories of fresh foods, especially 
fruit and vegetables, which are full of vitamins and fibre, rather than processed foods. Processed 
foods often contain less nutrition, and have higher quantities of sugar, salt, and fat than fresh 
ingredients. Besides this, it is also important to have some meat, beans, or dairy products in 
your diet, as they provide the necessary protein for strong bones and muscle growth. As with 
everything in life, moderation is key. The ideal diet is a balanced one, without too much or too 
little of any one thing.
Finally, a fundamental key to healthy eating is to eat slowly. It takes about twenty minutes from 
the time you start eating for your brain to tell your body that you are full. What this means is that 
people who chew too quickly end up eating too much food because they still feel hungry. Eating 
slowly also allows your body to digest your food better, and will allow you to enjoy your food 
more. In addition, studies show that consistent eating habits, for example, taking three meals a 
day at the same time each day, are better for our health. It is also better to eat a modest amount of 
food each time, rather than to eat a lot in one meal, and then a little in the next.  
There is no one trick to healthy eating. Rather, healthy eating starts with having a healthy attitude 
towards food. One question you can ask yourself is, “Do I eat to live, or live to eat?” If you are 
using food mostly for nutrition, then you are on the right track with your diet. However, if food has 
become the centre of your life, you might be on the road to bad health. It is up to you to decide how 
you want to live, and to make the right decisions about your diet.
Write about a healthy diet
32

===== PAGE 40 =====
4	 Exchange your draft with a partner. Use this checklist to help you revise the draft. 
Then take your draft back and revise it using your partner’s comments.
   	
  Does the writer use details to support each point?
	
  Does the writer use proper linking words to tie the essay together?
	
  Has the writer really thought about his or her diet carefully?
	
  Does the writer use vivid words to add stress to his or her points? 
5	 Put up your essay in the classroom or read it to your class.
Paragraph 1	
A  Slow Eating is Good 
Paragraph 2	
B  Reducing Sweets is Key
Paragraph 3	
C  The Real Killer is Sugar 
Paragraph 4	
D  The Way You Look at Food is Most Important
Paragraph 5	
E  Keep It Fresh and Balanced
2	 Study the language and structure.
1   What are the key details that support each point?
	
A	 The real driver of poor health is not so much fatty food, as it is sugar.
	
	
Detail(s): 
	
B	Much of this extra sugar comes from sweets and sweet drinks.
	
	
Detail(s): 
	
C	You can keep healthy by consuming different categories of fresh foods … rather than 
	
	
processed foods.
	
	
Detail(s): 
	
D	A fundamental key to healthy eating is to eat slowly.
	
	
Detail(s): 
2   Underline the linking words in the passage that introduce another way of saying what was 
already mentioned in the previous sentence.
3   Circle the linking words in the passage which show that contrasting ideas are being introduced.
3	 Use what you have learnt to write an essay about your own diet.
1   Write down everything you ate and drank over the last three days.  
2   Compare what you have had over the last three days with the advice written in the article, 
and any facts about diet and nutrition that you know to be true. Make two lists: 
	
• A list of your good eating habits 
	
• A list of your bad eating habits
3   If you have bad eating habits, make a list of things you can do to get rid of them.
4   Use your notes to write your essay. You can start like this:
	
Overall, I think I have healthy/unhealthy eating habits. As for the things that I am doing 
right, … Still, I should improve my eating habits by …
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
33

===== PAGE 41 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1	 Choose the suitable words to complete the conversations.
2	 Read the conversations which take place in restaurants. Then complete them 
using the correct forms of the words in brackets.
minimum  elegant  fibre  desserts  recipe  exceptional  chef  prior to
REFLECTING 
  What cuisine and/or culture in this unit impressed you most? Why?
  What useful vocabulary or structures did you learn in this unit?
  Do you think “understanding cause and effect” was a useful strategy?
	 Could you talk with your friends about foods, restaurants, and/or cultures after doing 
this unit?
  What aspect of food and culture would you like to learn more about?
  Overall, I thought this unit was	
 interesting 
 practical 
 so-so 
 difficult.
1	 A: Why do you eat so many bananas?
	
B: Because bananas offer an excellent source of 
 and vitamins.
2	 A: How do you manage to stay so slim and fit?
	
B: I have brought my consumption of sweets and 
 down to the bare 
.
3	 A: How do you like your new cooking classes?
	
B: They’re 
! The teacher used to be a famous 
 in a big hotel.
4	 A: What is Jessie busy with in the kitchen?
	
B: She is trying a new 
 for pumpkin pie.
5	 A: Why did they refuse the dinner invitation?
	
B: They had to refuse the dinner invitation because of an engagement made 
 it.
6	 A: How did you find the restaurant you visited yesterday?
	
B: It was beautiful and 
 ! We’ve never been to such an attractive restaurant 
	
	
before.
1	 A: Could you tell that she _________? (cry)
	
B: Sure. Her eyes were very red. Maybe she had just had a quarrel with her brother.
	
A: But I thought it was because she _________ red curry. (eat)
	
B: Oh, maybe you’re right.
2	 A: I wish you _________ me earlier. I know a buffet restaurant nearby which is really
          nice. You could have taken your parents there. (tell)
B: What a pity! But I _________ that they were coming for the weekend. They said they 
wanted to surprise me. Anyway, it’s very nice of you to offer. (not inform)
34
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE

===== PAGE 42 =====
*Project: Design your own restaurant
1	 In groups, discuss these questions.
	
What kind of restaurant will it be, e.g., fine dining, casual family, or fast food?
	
What kind of cuisine will you serve?
	
Who will be your customers?
	
How much will you charge?
	
Where will the restaurant be located?
	
…
2	 Divide the following tasks within your group:
	
decide on the dishes to be served and the chef to be employed
	
design the menu in both English and Chinese
	
design the kitchen
	
design the dining area and decorations
	
give the restaurant a name and design advertising materials for it
	
work as a manager to help everyone coordinate their ideas and activities
In this project, you are going to make a plan for a new restaurant in your city. 
3	 Now pull everything together to make a presentation to the class, where the 
key aspects of the restaurant will be explained by the different members of 
the group.
4	 As a class, vote on the best restaurant.
比萨/PIZZA                     9’’   12’’
炒面比萨                    
Fried Noodles                48   92
烤鸭比萨                 
Roast Duck                     60   118
有机蔬菜比萨             
Organic Vegetable         70   130
低卡路里比萨             
Low Calorie Special       65   125
小吃/SNACK
北京灌肠             
Beijing Fried Sausage    20
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE
35

===== PAGE 43 =====
* Video Time
What Are You Eating in Australia?
Australians love new and exotic food. Watch 
this video to see a new cuisine that has 
become popular with some diners there.
BEFORE YOU WATCH  
Complete the sentences with the words from the box.
WHILE YOU WATCH  
1	 Choose the best words to complete the sentences.
1	 Insects are 
 in protein, cheaper, and 
 sustainable than beef.
	
A  lower, less	
B  higher, more	
C  equal, just as
2	 More than 
 people worldwide eat insects as a part of their diets.
	
A  two billion	
B  two million	
C  a few billion
3	 Insects are a common part of people’s diets in parts of Asia, 
 America, and Africa.
	
A  North 	
B  Central	
C  Latin
4	 Bugs 
 a regular feature on Aussie dinner tables. 
	
A  are not yet	
B  are already	
C  will soon be
2	 Complete these quotes with the words you hear in the video.
1	 Nowshad Alam Rasel, Chef: “… they’re asking 
. Yeah, it’s very 
.”
2	 Skye Blackburn, Entomologist: “… some of them will try edible 
 and 
some of them won’t, but they’ll go away and talk about 
 …”
3	 Guy McEwan: “So I’m going to go 
 gob ... Yeah, 
!”
4	 Danny Stagnitta: “Sometimes 
 the packet, it looks like 
.”
AFTER  YOU WATCH  
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	 Has anyone in your group ever eaten an insect? What was it like?
2	 Would you ever eat an insect? Why or why not?
3	 What is the strangest thing you have ever eaten? Why was it strange?
	
What makes a food strange?
challenging    crawling onto    flying out of    proving    starting to
1	 There’s an unfamiliar cuisine 
 menus.
2	 It’s 
 the bravest of diners.
3	 A twist of lime and a dash of salt has these crickets 
 the kitchen.
4	 Insects remain a hard sell, but bug by bug, that could be 
 change.
5	 The unique treat is 
 popular at farmer’s markets and trendy eateries.
36
UNIT 3  FOOD AND CULTURE

===== PAGE 44 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
Travel far enough, you meet 
yourself.  
—David Mitchell
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about a rail journey across Canada.  
2  hear and talk about journeys across vast 
lands.
3  write an email about a journey.
4  learn about a journey through Jack London’s 
literature.
    Look and discuss
1  When and where was this photo taken? 
2  If you took a rail journey like this, what do 
you think you would see and experience?
3  Have you ever taken a long rail journey? 
What was it like? How might the rail 
journey in the photo be different or similar?
JOURNEY 
ACROSS A 
VAST LAND
UNIT 4
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
Learn about a rail journey across Canada 
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, discuss these 
questions with your partner.
2	 Read the article and underline the discourse markers.
Discourse markers are also known as “linking words”.  
They are used to show relationships between ideas. 
Relationships can range from adding something (e.g., also, 
besides, additionally), to showing contrast (e.g., however, on 
the other hand), to explaining a reason (e.g., because, since), 
or to showing a result (e.g., therefore, as a result).  Without 
discourse markers, the connections between sentences 
and paragraphs would be less obvious.
Use discourse markers to show relationships
1	 What do you know about rail 
journeys?
2	 What do you think you will see if 
you go on a rail journey across 
Canada?
Li Daiyu and her cousin Liu Qian went to Canada to visit 
their cousins in Halifax on the Atlantic coast. Rather than 
travel by commercial airline all the way, they decided to fly 
to Vancouver and then take the train. For both of them, the 
thought of crossing the whole country by rail was exciting.
Before starting out, they spent a couple of days in 
Vancouver, seeing the sights. During their first day, as is 
typical of Vancouver, it rained. Despite the weather, they 
were able to take a boat ride out into the bay, and later 
visit an island that had wonderful shops selling crafts and 
antiques. The next day was clear and mild, and they were 
pleased to see the beautiful mountains looking out over 
the city. Later, they took a pleasant hike in a forest just a 
short distance away.
The next morning, the two girls arose early to take the 
train to Lake Louise, passing through the Canadian 
Rockies. Seen from the train window, the mountains 
and forests of Canada looked massive. When the train 
arrived at the station, they took a taxi to Lake Louise, 
where the blue water literally took their breath away 
with its exceptional beauty. They spent the night, and then took a coach bound north through the 
Canadian Rockies to Jasper. Looking at the beautiful scenery, they both agreed that it was the 
most awesome journey they had ever taken. In addition to seeing spectacular mountain peaks 
and forests, one highlight of their trip was being able to see many different creatures, including 
deer, mountain goats, and even a grizzly bear and an eagle.
From Jasper, they caught the train towards Toronto. One of the train’s first stops was in 
Edmonton, the provincial capital of Alberta, the centre of Canada’s huge oil and gas drilling 
industry. Edmonton is freezing cold in winter, with daily temperatures averaging -10˚C. Since it 
can be too cold to go outdoors, Edmonton is home to many shopping malls. In fact, one of the 
largest shopping malls in North America is in Edmonton. 
SEEING THE TRUE 
NORTH VIA RAIL: 
VANCOUVER AND THE 
HEART OF CANADA
38