UNIT 5  FIRST AID

===== PAGE 58 =====
3	 Read again and decide if the following statements are true (T) or false (F). 
1	 Your skin gives you protection from many dangerous things.	
T
	
F
2	 A first-degree burn has this name because it is the most serious. 	
T
	
F
3	 Second-degree burns can be the most painful kind of burn.	
T
	
F
4	 It is important to use cool water to stop the heat from remaining in the 
      wound regardless of the degree of the burn.	
T
	
F
5	 Putting butter or oil on burns helps because it may reduce swelling and 
      ease discomfort.	
T
	
F
4	 Complete the table to summarise the information about first aid for burns.	
FIRST-AID TREATMENT
1	 Place burns under cool running water, especially within the first 
ten minutes. The cool water stops the burning process and 
reduces the pain and swelling.
2	 Dry the burnt area gently with a clean cloth.
3	 Remove any clothes using scissors if necessary, unless you see 
the fabric sticking to the burnt skin.
4	 Cover the burnt area with a loose clean cloth. Applying oil to 
the injured areas is a bad idea, as it will keep the heat in the 
wounds and may cause infection.
5	 If burns are on the face, make sure the victim can still breathe.
6	 If the victim is suffering from second or third-degree burns, 
there is an urgent need to take him/her to the hospital at once.
Details
Types
First-degree burns
Second-degree burns
Third-degree burns
Depth
 of the 
skin
 of the 
skin
 of the 
skin and sometimes  
 
underneath
Characteristics
dry, red, and mildly 
; mildly 
; turn 
 when 
pressed
red and swollen;
;
  
surface; extremely 
black and white; swollen;  
 can often 
be seen; little or no pain if
 are 
damaged
Treatment
place under 
 within the first ten minutes 
 
  
the burnt area 
 
 clothes 
 
 the burn 
 
burn on the face: make sure the victim can 
 
 second or 
third-degree burn: take the victim to 
5	 In groups, discuss the following questions.
1 	 How are people most likely to get burnt?
2 	 What steps can be taken to help prevent these burns?
3 	 What other advice do you know of about first aid for burns?
	
Is it good advice or bad advice? Why?
UNIT 5  FIRST AID
51

===== PAGE 59 =====
WORKBOOK
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Write a word you have learnt in this unit before each definition.  
2	 Choose the right word(s) from A–C to complete each short conversation. 
3	 Read the passage about chemical burns and fill in the blanks with the correct 
forms of the words in the box. 
incident    loose    urgent    organ    acid    victim
1 	
 a part of the body that has a particular purpose, such as the heart or the brain
2 	
 a chemical, usually a liquid, that has a pH of less than seven
3 	
 one thousandth of a metre
4 	
 energy sent out in waves
5 	
 material used for making cloth, curtains, etc.
6 	
 a person who has been attacked, injured, or killed
1 	 A:	 The price for this car? Fifteen thousand dollars out the door! What a deal!
 B:		 Well, if the car hadn’t been in an accident, that would be a good price, but it has a 
	
	 few 
 problems.
	
   	 A  slight	
B  minor	
C  tiny
2 	 A: 	 Ouch! My leg really hurts!
 B: 	 Why don’t you take some medicine to 
 the pain?
	
   	 A  reduce	
B  relax	
C  ease
3 	 A: 	 Have you treated any real emergencies in your first-aid course at the Red Cross?
 B: 	 Well, they let us ride along with some paramedics. Once, we gave first aid to 
	
	 a 
 of a traffic accident before rushing him to the hospital.
	
   	 A  victim	
B  patient	
C  sufferer
4 	 A: 	 Did you hear that three people died in a fire last night?
 B: 	 What a terrible 
! How did it happen?
	
   	 A  accident	
B  incident	
C  occasion
5	 A: 	 Can I see you for a moment?    
 B: 	 Is it a matter of 
?
	
   	 A  urgency	
B  emergency	
C  seriousness
	
A chemical burn occurs when your skin or eyes come into contact with an 
 
or other chemicals. Such 
 can be very dangerous and require 
 
attention. Chemical burns can even affect your internal 
 if the chemicals 
are swallowed. First aid should be given to chemical burns immediately. For example, 
wrap the burnt area 
 with a clean cloth if possible. It is important to send 
the 
 to the hospital right away if he or she is severely burnt. 
52

===== PAGE 60 =====
Discover useful structures
1	 What is the function of the -ing form in each sentence below? Can you 
express the same ideas without using the -ing form? 
2	 Replace each underlined part with a suitable -ing form and rewrite the 
sentence as necessary. Work with a partner and summarise the different 
structures of the -ing form. When is each one used?
3	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the given words. What 
happened to Mrs Taylor?
4	 Work in pairs and discuss the following questions.  
1 	 As you can imagine, getting burnt can lead to very serious injuries.
2 	 The first and most important step in the treatment of burns is giving first aid.
3 	 It is best to place burns under cool running water, especially within the first ten minutes.
4 	 Remove any clothes using scissors if necessary, unless you see the fabric sticking to the 
burnt skin.
5 	 You can protect the burnt area by covering it with a loose clean cloth.
	
Mrs Taylor was an elderly woman 
 (live) alone. One day, she was in her living room 
cleaning the windows, when suddenly she could no longer feel the right side of her body.  
 
(try) to walk to her sofa to sit down, she fell over onto the carpet. Then she realised that she could not 
get up, and that she was having trouble 
 (breathe). Fortunately, she had her mobile phone 
with her, and she was able to reach it with her left hand while 
 (lie) on the floor. Her mobile 
phone 
 (already, set up) to call an emergency number at the push of a button, so it was 
easy to call for help. While attempting to talk to the operator, Mrs Taylor discovered that she could 
not speak. 
 (not, hear) an answer, the operator knew that Mrs Taylor must be in trouble. 
Telling Mrs Taylor that everything would be OK, she immediately sent an ambulance. After 
 
(arrive), the ambulance team quickly found Mrs Taylor and without delay gave her oxygen, put in an 
IV needle, and checked her vital signs. 
 (take) to the hospital and treated immediately, Mrs 
Taylor’s health was in no great danger, though she had to stay in the hospital ward. After a week, 
her 
 (frighten) experience was over, and she was allowed to go home.
1 	 What should people do when facing a frightening experience like Mrs Taylor’s?
2 	 What are some risks that elderly people may encounter when living alone?
3 	 What can we do to help prevent elderly people from taking unnecessary risks?
1 	 When he got out of the bathtub, he slipped and fell on the floor.
2 	 Is there any reason why we are not going to have the first-aid training this week?
3 	 She had been told about the risk of electric shocks and this made her very careful while 
using hairdryers.
4 	 Because the child was not watched carefully by his parents, he touched a hot iron and 
burnt his finger.
5 	 After she had been bitten by mosquitoes, she applied some medicine to her skin.
UNIT 5  FIRST AID
53

===== PAGE 61 =====
Using Language
1    In groups, try to match the countries with the emergency numbers.
2    Match the pictures below to the medical emergencies, and then discuss the 
questions in groups.
3    Listen to a 999 call in England and answer the questions.
Learn to call emergency services
119 
112 
120 
111 
000 
911 
999
 heart attack             
 drowning            
 sprained ankle 
 poisoning             
 bad cut/bleeding
Australia 
 	
Canada 
 
China 
 	
Japan 
 
Most European countries 
 
New Zealand 
 
South Korea 
 
the UK 
 
the US 
 
1 	 Have you ever called 120? If so, what happened?
2 	 Would you call 120 for the medical emergencies above? How would you describe the 
situations?
3 	 What are some other medical emergencies that you would call 120 for?
1 	 Why did the boy call 999?
2 	 Who else was in the room with the boy and his grandfather?
3 	 How did the boy describe the old man’s condition?
4 	 Among the medical emergencies in Activity 2, which do you think the boy’s grandfather 
suffered from?
1
3
4
5
2
54
UNIT 5  FIRST AID

===== PAGE 62 =====
Listening and Speaking
Giving first-aid instructions for rescuing a drowning victim
lay the victim on his back	
pat his shoulders
check for a response	
check to see if he is breathing
call for an ambulance	
lift up his chin       
remove any grass or sand from his mouth	
perform CPR 
perform mouth-to-mouth rescue breathing	
cover his mouth
blow air in	
push down on the centre of his chest
5    In groups, discuss the following questions.
6    The pictures below show what to do to rescue someone from drowning. In groups, 
discuss what is going on in each picture. Use the words given below.
7    In pairs, role-play an emergency call. One of you will be the friend of a drowning 
victim, and the other will be a telephone operator giving first-aid instructions. 
Use the pictures and useful expressions above to help you.
4	 Listen again. Number the following instructions 
the operator gave.
 	 Press down, twice a second.
 	 Check to see if there is food in his mouth.
 	 If your mother needs a break, change places.
 	 Put him on his back.
 	 Remove any pillows.
 	 Tell your mum to put her hand in the middle of 
his chest.
When giving commands, people 
usually use the imperative. It’s 
simple and clear. To help the 
listeners follow what to do next, 
they use words such as first, 
next, then, after that, and finally. 
When listening to instructions in 
English, you should
• listen carefully and don’t 
panic.
• follow the order of the 
instructions given to you.
• answer any questions simply 
and directly when asked.
Follow instructions
1 	 How did the operator keep the boy calm?
2 	 What did the operator do to make this call a success?
3 	 What do you think happened after the ambulance arrived?
2
5
3
6
1
4
UNIT 5  FIRST AID
55

===== PAGE 63 =====
Using Language
Share your story about providing first aid
1    Read the article and then put A–E in the correct places in the text.
Chen Wei, a high school student in Beijing, had his dinner 
interrupted when he heard someone screaming from another 
table. A fellow diner at the restaurant, Zhang Tao, was choking 
on some steak. He was now holding his throat with his face 
turning red, while his desperate friends were slapping him on the 
back. 
. He got up and ran 
to Zhang’s table at once. With the help of Zhang’s friends, he was 
able to help Zhang to his feet. Then, standing behind Zhang, Chen 
did the Heimlich manoeuvre. The food was instantly forced out, and 
Zhang began to breathe again. Ten minutes later, an ambulance 
arrived. The doctors checked Zhang and made sure that he was fine. 
They suggested he eat more slowly and take smaller bites before 
they left.
, leaving no time 
for an ambulance to arrive. To solve this problem, in 1974, an 
American doctor, Henry Heimlich, created the Heimlich manoeuvre, 
saving thousands of lives around the world. Doing the Heimlich 
manoeuvre is quick, practical, and easy. It is so easy, in fact, that 
almost anyone can learn how. 
. Then, make sure 
that the victim is really choking: A choking person cannot speak. 
Slapping the victim’s back will often force out the obstruction. If this 
does not work, you can perform the Heimlich manoeuvre by standing 
behind him and wrapping your arms around his waist. Make a fist 
with one hand and place it in the upper part of his stomach. Grabbing 
your fist with your other hand tightly, push up and into his stomach in 
one motion. Continue doing this until the obstruction is forced out. 
, as you may hurt 
him. Instead, lay the child face down on your lap with the head 
lower than the rest of his body, and then give firm slaps to his 
upper back until he can breathe again. 
. You cannot just 
stand by and do nothing. Luckily, Chen had learnt how to give first 
aid in school. Seeing Zhang choking, he remained calm and reacted immediately. Chen later said about 
the incident, “How could I justify sitting there and doing nothing? We are all humans and we all have a 
responsibility to look after one another’s welfare.”
Zhang Tao’s friend slapping 
him on the back
Chen Wei performing the 
Heimlich manoeuvre
Performing the Heimlich 
manoeuvre on a small child
56
UNIT 5  FIRST AID

===== PAGE 64 =====
A	
Choking victims usually have only about four minutes before they collapse and 
	
sometimes die 
B	
If you see someone choking, first call the emergency services      
C	
Chen wasted no time        
D	
With choking victims, every minute counts      
E	
Doing the Heimlich manoeuvre on a small child is not recommended
2    Read the article again and choose the correct words to complete the sentences.
3    Reread the article, and then answer the questions below.
4    Use what you have learnt to write a narrative essay that shares a story about 
providing first aid.
5    Exchange your draft with your partner. Use this checklist to help you revise the 
draft. Then take back your draft and revise it using your partner’s comments.
6    Put up your narrative essay in the classroom or read it to your class.
1 	 Chen Wei was a friend/complete stranger to Zhang Tao.
2 	 When Chen Wei reached Zhang Tao, Zhang Tao was sitting on the chair/standing.
3 	 The Heimlich manoeuvre is quite easy/difficult to do.
4 	 You will know that the victim is choking if he cannot speak/stops breathing.
5 	 To help a small child who is choking, you need to lay the child face up/down on your lap 
and slap his upper back.
6 	 Chen Wei was able to save Zhang Tao because he learnt the Heimlich manoeuvre 
	
at school/from a first-aid manual.
1 	 Part 1:
	
•  Who were the people involved?
	
•  What happened?
	
•  Where did it happen?
2 	 Part 2: What did Chen Wei do? 
3 	 Part 3: How does the story end?
4 	 What purpose does the quote at the 
end of the essay serve?
A narrative essay tells a story. Like all 
good stories, it has three parts: the set-up, 
the conflict, and the conclusion. The set-
up tells you about who, what, and where. 
The conflict always involves a challenge 
or difficulty that the characters face. The 
conclusion is the end of the story, where 
the problem in Part 2 has been solved.
Write a narrative essay
1 	 Work in pairs. Discuss your experiences of giving first aid in an emergency. If neither of you 
have any experiences, discuss stories you have read or heard about, or think up a situation.
2 	 Write an outline of the three parts in your story. Then think of a good quote to sum things up.
3 	 Write your narrative essay. 
 Is the narrative essay clear?
 Does it have three parts?
 Does the first part tell you about who, what, and where?
 Does the second part show a conflict?
 Does the third part give the conclusion?
 Is there a good quote to sum things up?
 Are the details of the story easy to understand?
UNIT 5  FIRST AID
57

===== PAGE 65 =====
Assessing Your Progress
	 What did you learn about first aid that you didn’t know before?
	 What do you think we should be like if we want to work as a first-aid doctor or 
volunteer?
	 What could we do to warn people of various dangers and to prepare them for 
different emergencies?
  Has the unit encouraged you in any way to want to look after the welfare of others? 
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.    
REFLECTING 
1    Circle the correct word in each sentence. 
2    Complete the passage with the correct forms of the verbs in the box. Why did the 
accident occur? How should we try to avoid accidents in life?
1 	 The cloth/fabric of this bag is soft and light. What is it made of?
2 	 The Red Cross is looking for volunteers who are concerned about the welfare/happiness of 
their fellow men. 
3 	 When Lisa noticed the fire, she rushed to grab/grasp the fire extinguisher outside the door 
of the flat.
4 	 These trousers are too loose/lose—I’m having trouble keeping them up.
5 	 After the theft, the police were called to investigate the accident/incident.
6 	 I heard desperate/serious cries for help when I walked past that old building. I reacted 
quickly by rushing into the building.
7 	 John’s alarm didn’t go off, so he slept in and was awoken by the radiations/rays of sunlight 
coming in through his window.
8 	 We should always do what we can to take care of the elderly/old and any others who might 
be in need.
get    return    ride    sit    slow    throw    try    turn    walk    want
	
 for long hours every day in an office for several years, Nancy Jones felt that she was 
getting out of shape and decided that she needed to get some exercise. So, instead of going to 
and from work every day by bus, she started riding a bike because 
 was an enjoyable 
activity for her. One night she had to work till late and it was foggy outside when she left the 
office. Her bike did not have a light, so 
 home by bike would be dangerous. 
 
(not) to risk having her bike stolen, however, she decided to ride it home anyway. The first few 
kilometres had plenty of street lights, but 
 onto a side road in the suburbs she found 
herself in the dark. 
 down, she tried to see in front of her, but it was impossible. Then 
without warning, her bike hit a rock, 
 her to the ground. 
 to get up, she 
discovered that her ankle was broken. Unable to stand or walk, she found herself in alarming 
pain. Fortunately, she was able to call an ambulance with her mobile phone, and they took her to 
a hospital. However, it was several months before her ankle recovered and she found 
 
easy again. 
 a gym membership near her office, Nancy decided that there were other 
ways of keeping fit.
58
UNIT 5  FIRST AID

===== PAGE 66 =====
*Project 2: Make your own first-aid kit
2	 Research how to perform first aid for that medical emergency. 
3	 Make an instruction leaflet for giving first aid for that emergency. Include 
illustrations for any points that are not clear.
4	 Combine all the leaflets to make a first-aid manual for your class.
1	 With a partner, research what should be included in a 
first-aid kit, how the items in the first-aid kit should be 
used, and in which emergencies they should be used.
2	 Collect the items and put them in a box or container that 
is easy to store and find. In most cases, the items for a 
first-aid kit can be bought cheaply at a pharmacy.
3	 Draw up an information sheet to go in the first-aid kit. It should include emergency 
phone numbers, a list of the items, and an explanation of how to use the items. 
Use the table below to help you.
Emergency phone numbers
Items
When to use
How to use
1
2
3
*Project 1: Learn and teach others about first aid
1	 In groups, choose one of the medical emergencies in the photos below. 
4	 Present your first-aid kit to the class. Introduce and explain the use of each item.
sprained ankle
heart 
attack
bleeding
burn
choking
broken 
arm
nosebleed
sunstroke
UNIT 5  FIRST AID
59

===== PAGE 67 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Complete the sentences with the correct words.
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Decide if the following statements are true (T) or false (F).
	
	
1  Marra has a staff of twenty people working for him.	 	
	
	
T
	
F
	
	
2  Marra’s company has saved the lives of more than eighty people. 	
	
T
	
F
	
	
3  Marra did not need government approval to set up his company.	
	
T
	
F
	
	
4  Marra communicates with the paramotor pilots through two-way radios. 	
T
	
F
	
	
5  A rip current is a dangerous flow of water that moves away from the beach.	
T
	
F
 
2	 Number the following steps in the correct order.
	
 The pilot calls the lifeguards.
	
 The pilot manoeuvres close enough to drop the life preserver to the swimmer.
	
 The pilot sees a victim.
	
 Para-Life pilots strap themselves into the paramotor.
	
 The pilot then continues to fly above the victim until the lifeguards arrive.
	
 The pilot flies against the wind to reduce flight speed.
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1 	 What are some advantages of paramotors over traditional forms of water rescue? What are 
some disadvantages?
2 	 As a business, how might the Para-Life rescue service make money? Is it right to charge 
victims for rescue? If so, how much should they be charged? What if they cannot pay?
3 	 What other interesting or new kinds of rescue are there? How do they work?
Para-Life Rescue
The paramotor was originally invented for 
sports and leisure, but these days it is saving 
lives. In this video, Ruy Marra tells about his 
rescue experience using a paramotor and his 
beach safety business.
* Video Time
A paramotor    A life preserver    Copacabana Beach    Ruy Marra
1	
 is a type of aircraft with a lightweight engine and a large propeller strapped to the pilot.
2	
 is in Brazil.
3	
 is a man who started the Para-Life rescue service business in 1995.
4	
 is something that can be worn in the water to prevent you from sinking.
60
UNIT 5  FIRST AID

===== PAGE 68 =====
  UNIT 1  SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS
1	 Complete the crossword puzzle 
according to the clues given.
1	 having a natural ability to do sth well
2	 to deal with
3	 hard or firm
4	 to throw sb/sth somewhere with force
5	 a person who helps sb else in his/her job
6	 to think that sb is responsible for sth bad
7	 to become less in number or amount
8	 a weapon that travels through the air and  
explodes when it reaches its target
9	 not mixed with anything
10	to change the form of sth
2	 What do you think a great scientist 
needs most? Rank the following in 
order of importance and compare 
your list with your partner’s.
 
 theoretical background 
	
 professional knowledge