110
UNIT 14
2a
What is the most important thing you have learned in junior high 
school? Discuss the question with a partner.
IDENTIFYING TEXT TYPE AND PURPOSE
Quickly read through a text to see what 
kind of writing it is, who wrote it and 
why it was written.
2b
Read the passage and answer the questions.
1. What kind of text is this? Is it a story, a speech or a notice?
2. Who do you think wrote it?
3. Who is it for?
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Th ank you for coming today to 
att end the graduation ceremony at 
No. 3 Junior High School. First of all, I’d like to congratulate all the students who 
are here today. I remember meeting all of you when you were just starting Grade 
7 at this school. You were all so full of energy and thirsty for knowledge. And yes, 
some of you were a litt le diﬃ  cult to deal with! But today I see a room full of talented 
young adults who are full of hope for the future. You’ve all grown up so much and I’m 
so proud of you.
Although you’ve all worked very hard over the last three 
years, none of you did it alone. I hope you’ll remember the 
important people in your lives who helped and supported 
you — your parents, your teachers and your friends. 
Please consider what they’ve done for you and what 
they mean to you. Never fail to be thankful to the people 
around you.
Lastly, the end of junior high school is the beginning of 
a new life. I don’t need to tell you that life in senior high 
school will be harder and that you have many diﬃ  cult 
tasks ahead of you. You’ll make mistakes along the way, 
but the key is to learn from your mistakes and never give up. But along with  
diﬃ  culties, there will also be many exciting things waiting for you. Behind each 
door you open are chances to learn new things, and you have the ability to make 
your own choices. Choose wisely and be responsible for your decisions and  
actions. Although you have to go your separate ways now, I hope that in a few years’ 
time, you’ll come back to visit our school. As you set out on your new journey, you 
shouldn’t forget where you came from. Th e future is yours.
Good luck and hope to see you again sometime soon!
