UNIT 9
70
2a
How many Chinese musical instruments do you know about? Do you 
know any famous pieces of music that are played on these instruments? 
Make a list with your partner.
2b
Read the passage and answer the questions.
1.	Which musician does the passage mainly talk about?
2.	What is the name of his most famous piece of music?
3.	How does the writer feel about this piece of music?
Sad but Beautiful
Last night one of my Chinese friends 
took me to a concert of Chinese folk 
music. The piece which was played on the erhu especially moved me. The music was 
strangely beautiful, but under the beauty I sensed a strong sadness and pain. The 
piece had a simple name, Erquan Yingyue (Moon Reflected on Second Spring), but it 
was one of the most moving pieces of music that I’ve ever heard. The erhu sounded 
so sad that I almost cried along with it as I listened. Later I looked up the history of 
Erquan Yingyue, and I began to understand the sadness in the music.
The music was written by Abing, a folk musician who was born in the city of Wuxi 
in 1893. His mother died when he was very young. Abing’s father taught him to 
play many musical instruments, such as the drums, dizi and erhu, and by age 17, 
Abing was known for his musical ability. However, after his father died, Abing’s 
life grew worse. He was very poor. Not only that, he developed a serious illness 
and became blind. For several years, he had no home. He lived on the streets and 
played music to make money. Even after Abing got married and had a home again, 
he continued to sing and play on the streets. He performed in this way for many 
years.
Abing’s amazing musical skills made him very popular during his lifetime. By the 
end of his life, he could play over 600 pieces of music. Many of these were written 
by Abing himself. It is a pity that only six pieces of music in total were recorded for 
the future world to hear, but his popularity 
continues to this day. Today, Abing’s Erquan 
Yingyue is a piece which all the great erhu 
masters play and praise. It has become one 
of China’s national treasures. Its sad beauty 
not only paints a picture of Abing’s own life 
but also makes people recall their deepest 
wounds from their own sad or painful 	
experiences.
NOTING SUPPORTING DETAILS
Supporting details can be examples, 
reasons, opinions or other detailed 
information in each paragraph.
