94
UNIT 12
2a
Have you ever played jokes on others, especially on April Fool’s Day? 
Have you ever been fooled by others? Tell your story to your partner.
April Fool’s Day is a celebration that takes 
place in diﬀ erent countries around the 
world. It happens on April 1st every year 
and is a day when many people play all 
kinds of tricks and jokes on each other.
One April Fool’s Day, a reporter in England 
announced that there would be no more spaghett i because the spaghett i farmers in 
Italy had stopped growing spaghett i. Many people ran to their local supermarkets to 
buy as much spaghett i as they could. By the time people realized that the story was a 
hoax, all of the spaghett i across the country had been sold out. In another famous trick 
a TV show in England reported the discovery of special water. Th ey said this water 
would help people lose weight and that one customer had already lost a lot of weight 
in just four months. By the end of the day, more than 10,000 people had phoned the 
TV station to fi nd out how to get this water.
Many April Fool’s jokes may end up being not very funny. A famous TV star once 
invited his girlfriend onto his show on April Fool’s Day. He asked her to marry him. 
Th e lady was so happy because she really wanted to get married. However, when she 
said yes, he replied, “April Fool!” Th at litt le joke didn’t have a very happy ending. 
Th e TV star lost his girlfriend and his show was canceled.
One of the world’s most famous tricks, however, happened in October rather than in 
April. In that month in 1938, actor Orson Welles announced on his radio program 
that aliens from Mars had landed on the earth. He 
described where they had landed and told how 
they were moving across the United States. Welles 
made it sound so real that hundreds of people  
believed the story, and fear spread across the 
whole country. By the time police oﬃ  cers  
announced that the story was a hoax, thousands 
of people had left  their homes.
2b
Read the passage quickly. Th en match each paragraph with the main 
idea.
Paragraph 1  
One of the most famous tricks played
Paragraph 2 
Examples of funny stories that happened on April Fool’s Day
Paragraph 3  
An introduction to April Fool’s Day
Paragraph 4  
A sad story that happened on April Fool’s Day
ghetti because the spaghetti farmers in
USING BACKGROUND KNOWLEDGE
Carefully reading the ﬁ rst sentence 
in each paragraph can activate your 
own knowledge of the topic and 
help you guess what the whole text 
is about.
