11
I think that mooncakes are delicious!
UNIT 2
3b
Read the passage again. Put the events in the correct order.
	 Pang Meng tried to steal the medicine.
	 A goddess thanked Hou Yi by giving him magic medicine.
	 Chang’e refused to give Pang Meng the medicine and took it all.
	 Hou Yi shot down the nine suns and saved the people on the earth.
	 Hou Yi was very sad and watched the moon at night, and wished his 
wife could come back.
	 As a result, Chang’e became light and flew up to the sky.
	 Hou Yi planned to take the medicine with his wife.
1
3c
Without looking at the passage, try to complete the sentences with the 
correct words.
1.	People like to a
 the full moon on the Mid-Autumn night.
2.	The story of Chang’e is one of many t
 folk stories.
3.	Hou Yi got m
 medicine for shooting down the nine suns.
4.	Pang Meng wanted to s
 the medicine.
5.	Hou Yi l
 out fruits and desserts in the garden.
3a
Read the passage about the Mid-Autumn Festival and answer the 
questions.
1.	How do people celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival?
2.	What story is the reading about?
Full Moon, Full Feelings
Chinese people have been celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival and enjoying 	
mooncakes for centuries. Mooncakes are in the shape of a full moon on the 	
Mid-Autumn night. They carry people’s wishes to the families they love and miss.
There are many traditional folk stories about this festival. However, most people 
think that the story of Chang’e is the most touching. Chang’e was Hou Yi’s beautiful 
wife.  After Hou Yi shot down the nine suns, a goddess gave him magic medicine to 
thank him. Whoever took this could live forever, and Hou Yi planned to take it with 
Chang’e. However, a bad man, Pang Meng, tried to steal the medicine when Hou 
Yi was not home. Chang’e refused to give it to him and took it all. She became very 
light and flew up to the moon. Hou Yi was so sad that he 
called out her name to the moon every night. One night, 
he found that the moon was so bright and round that he 
could see his wife there. He quickly laid out her favorite 
fruits and desserts in the garden. How he wished that 
Chang’e could come back!
After this, people started the tradition of admiring the 
moon and sharing mooncakes with their families.
