22
UNIT 3
2b
Read the article and underline the topic sentence for each paragraph.
2a
Where do you need to make polite requests? Th ink of some possible  
situations. Discuss them with your partner.
Could You Please ...?
When you visit a foreign country, it is 
important to know how to ask for help 
politely. For example, you may ask “Where 
are the restrooms?” or “Could you please tell me where the restrooms are?” Th ese 
are similar requests for directions. Both are correct, but the fi rst one sounds less 
polite. Th at is because it is a very direct question. It is not enough to just ask a 
question correctly. We also need to learn how to be polite when we ask for help.
Good speakers change the way they speak in diﬀ erent situations. Th e expressions 
they use might depend on whom they are speaking to or how well they know 
each other. It is all right to ask your classmates direct questions because you know 
them well. However, if you say to your teacher, “When is the school trip?”, this 
might sound impolite. But if you say, “Excuse me, Mr. West. Do you know when 
the school trip is?”, this will sound much more polite.
Usually polite questions are longer. Th ey include expressions such as “Could you 
please ...?” or “May I ask ...?” It sounds more polite to say, “Peter, could you please 
tell me your e-mail address?” than “Peter, tell me your e-mail address.” Sometimes 
we even need to spend time leading into a request. For example, we might fi rst say 
to a stranger, “Excuse me, I wonder if you can help me” or “I’m sorry to trouble you, 
but ...” before asking for help.
It might seem more diﬃ  cult to speak politely than directly. However, it is important 
to learn how to use the right language in diﬀ erent situations. Th is will help you 
communicate bett er with other people.
USING SUITABLE LANGUAGE
In different situations, you 
need to choose and use  
suitable language based on 
cultural knowledge.
Pardon me, could you
please tell me where to
park my car?
Sorry. I can‛t help you.
Where‛s the post ofﬁ ce?
Sure. There‛s an underground
parking lot over there.
