14
UNIT 2
A Christmas Carol
Many would agree that when we think of 
Christmas, we probably think of gif s,  
Christmas trees and Santa Claus. But behind 
all these things lies the true meaning of  
Christmas: the importance of sharing and 
giving love and joy to people around us. T e story in A Christmas Carol is perhaps 
the best example of this.
A Christmas Carol is a famous short novel writ en by Charles Dickens. It is about an 
old man named Scrooge who never laughs or smiles. He is mean and only thinks 
about himself. He doesn’t treat others nicely. He just cares about whether he can make 
more money and he hates Christmas. One Christmas Eve, Scrooge sees the ghost of 
Jacob Marley, his dead business partner. Marley used to be just like Scrooge, so he was 
punished af er he died. He warns Scrooge to change his ways if he doesn’t want to end 
up like him. He also tells Scrooge to expect three spirits to visit him.
T at night, three ghosts visit Scrooge. First, the Ghost of Christmas Past takes 
him back to his childhood and reminds Scrooge of his happier days as a child. 
T en the second spirit, the Ghost of Christmas Present, takes him to see how 
others are spending Christmas this year. Everyone 
is happy, even poor people. T e last one, the Ghost 
of Christmas Yet to Come, takes him to the future. 
Scrooge sees that he is dead, but nobody cares. He is 
so scared that he wakes up in his bed and ﬁ nds out it 
is only the next morning — Christmas Day!
He decides to change his life and promises to be a 
bet er person. He happily celebrates Christmas with 
his relatives. He also gives gif s to people in need. 
He now treats everyone with kindness and warmth, 
spreading love and joy everywhere he goes. And that 
is the true spirit of Christmas!
2b
Read the passage about 
Christmas and answer 
the questions.
1. What are the common things that people think of for Christmas?
2. Who wrote A Christmas Carol?
3. What is the true meaning of Christmas?
2a
What do you know about 
Christmas? Discuss in 
groups and create a mind 
map.
h
l
INFERRING
This means you have to 
“read between the lines” to 
get the meanings that are 
not clearly stated in a text.
Activities
Stories
Date
Symbols
Christmas
