59
It must belong to Carla.
UNIT 8
3a
Read the article and decide 
which might be the best title.
A.  A Small and Quiet Town
B.  Strange Happenings in My Town
C.  Animals in Our Neighborhood
3c
Read the article carefully and write what people think about the strange 
noises.
Who gave opinions?
What are the opinions?
Victor’s wife
She thinks that it could be an animal.
Victor and his friends
Th e policemen
Helen
One woman in the area
Th e writer himself
We live in a small town and almost everyone knows each other. It used to be very 
quiet. Nothing much ever happened around here. However, these days, something 
unusual is happening in our town. Victor, a teacher at my school, is really nervous. 
When he was interviewed by the town newspaper, he said, “Every night we hear 
strange noises outside our window. My wife thinks that it could be an animal, but 
my friends and I think it must be teenagers having fun. My parents called the  
policemen, but they couldn’t fi nd anything strange. Th ey think it might be the wind. 
I don’t think so!”
Victor’s next-door neighbor Helen is worried, too. “At fi rst, I thought that it might 
be a dog, but I couldn’t see a dog or anything else, either. So I guess it can’t be a 
dog. But then, what could it be?” One woman in the area saw something running 
away, but it was dark so she is not sure. “I think it was too big to be a dog,” she 
said. “Maybe it was a bear or a wolf.”
Everyone in our town is feeling uneasy, and everyone has 
his or her own ideas. Th ere must be something visiting 
the homes in our neighborhood, but what is it? We have 
no idea. Most people hope that this animal or person will 
simply go away, but I do not think that is going to happen. 
Th e noise-maker is having too much fun creating fear in the 
neighborhood.
3b
Read the article again and fi nd words to match the meanings.
nervous or worried 
young people 
person in the next house 
area where people live 
animal like a very large dog 
person who makes noise 
