78
UNIT 10
2a
What do you know about customs in foreign countries? What do you 
think is the biggest challenge when visiting a foreign country?
e.g. My cousin went to America, and she said that learning basic table 
manners was her biggest challenge. She never knew what she was 
supposed to do at the dinner table.
2b
Read the lett er and answer the questions.
1. Why is Lin Yue in France?
2. Does she enjoy staying with her host family? How do you know?
3. How does she feel about making mistakes when she speaks French?
4. What is the biggest challenge she is facing?
REVIEWING
Taking notes or summarizing the main 
ideas can help you move language from 
your short-term to long-term memory.
Dear Laura,
Th anks for your message. Yes, I’m 
having a great time on my student 
exchange program in France. I was a bit nervous before I arrived here, but there was 
no reason to be. My host family is really nice. Th ey go out of their way to make me 
feel at home. Th e grandmother knows that I miss Chinese food a lot. So she actually 
learned how to make Chinese food! She also has a teenage granddaughter about 
my age who is really kind. She always talks to me in French to help me practice. You 
wouldn’t believe how quickly my French has improved because of that. I’m very 
comfortable speaking French now. Although I still make lots of mistakes, it doesn’t 
worry me as it used to.
My biggest challenge is learning how to behave at the dinner table. As you can imagine, 
things are very diﬀ erent from the way they are at home. For example, you’re not 
supposed to put your bread on your plate. You’re supposed to put it on the table! I 
thought that was prett y strange at fi rst, but now I’m used to it. Another example is 
that you’re not supposed to eat anything with your hands except bread, not even 
fruit. You have to cut it up and eat it with a fork. Another thing is that it is impolite 
to say you’re full. If you don’t want any more food, you should just say, “Th at was 
delicious.” Also, you’re not supposed to put your elbows on the table. I have to say 
that I fi nd it diﬃ  cult to remember everything, but I’m gradually gett ing used to it. I 
don’t fi nd French customs so strange anymore.
I’ll write again soon and tell you more about 
my life in France. Hope you’re having a good 
school year.
Yours,
Lin Yue
