30
UNIT 4
He Studies Harder Th an He Used to
Li Wen is a normal 15-year-old boy from 
the countryside. He works very hard and 
does well in school. It is hard to believe that he used to have diﬃ  culties in school. 
When he was a litt le boy, he seldom caused any problems, and his family spent a 
lot of time together. 
. His parents moved to the city to look for 
jobs, and his grandparents came to take care of him. But he missed his parents so 
much and he oft en felt lonely and unhappy. 
Li Wen’s unhappiness began to inﬂ uence his schoolwork. He became less interested 
in studying. Sometimes he was absent from classes and failed his examinations. 
Finally, Li Wen’s parents made the decision to send him to a boarding school. 
However, Li Wen was shy and was not able to make friends quickly in school. He 
found life there diﬃ  cult. One day he told his teacher that he wanted to leave the 
school. 
 and she called his parents. She advised them to talk with 
their son in person. So his parents took a 24-hour train and a 5-hour bus ride to get 
to Li Wen’s school. 
. “It was exactly what I needed,” he said. “Now I understand 
that even though they are busy, they are always thinking of me. Th ey take pride in 
everything good that I do.”
Aft er that, Li Wen’s parents had much more communication with their son than they 
used to. 
. He has become 
more outgoing and made some good friends 
in school. He has even joined the school 
basketball team and become active in many 
other activities. “I’m much happier now, and 
I work even harder than I used to. I know my 
parents love me and they’re always proud 
of me,” says Li Wen. “It’s very important for 
parents to be there for their children.”
2a
Li Wen is a 15-year-old boy from the countryside. His parents are 
working in the city. Look at the title of the passage and the picture 
below. What problems do you think he might have?
2b
Read the passage and put the sentences [A-D] in the correct places.
h
d t h
diﬃ
lti
i
h
l
USING CONTEXT
Using the sentence context 
may help you guess and learn 
the meanings of new words 
and phrases.
