62
UNIT 8
2b
Read the article below and underline the linking words and phrases. 
Do you think you have made correct matches in 2a?
IDENTIFYING LINKING LANGUAGE
Identifying conjunctions or phrases 
that link ideas together will help 
you understand what you read. 
2a
Match each linking word or phrase with its purpose.
Linking word or phrase
Purpose of linking word or phrase
so
expressing a diﬀ erence
as, because, since
giving a choice
but, however, though
expressing a result
not only ... but also
expressing two things happening at the same time
or
giving reasons
when, while
adding information
Stonehenge — Can Anyone 
Explain Why It Is Th ere?
Stonehenge, a rock circle, is not only one 
of Britain’s most famous historical places but also one of its greatest mysteries. 
Every year it receives more than 750,000 visitors. People like to go to this place 
especially in June as they want to see the sun rising on the longest day of the year.
For many years, historians believed Stonehenge was a temple where ancient leaders 
tried to communicate with the gods. However, historian Paul Stoker thinks this 
can’t be true because Stonehenge was built so many centuries ago. “Th e leaders 
arrived in England much later,” he points out.
Another popular idea is that Stonehenge might be a kind of calendar. Th e large 
stones were put together in a certain way. On midsummer’s morning, the sun 
shines directly into the center of the stones. Other people believe the stones have 
a medical purpose. Th ey think the stones can prevent illness and keep people 
healthy. “As you walk there, you can feel the energy from your feet move up your 
body,” said one visitor. No one is sure what Stonehenge was used for, but most 
agree that the position of the stones must be for a special purpose. Some think it 
might be a burial place or a place to honor ancestors. Others think it was built to 
celebrate a victory over an enemy.
Stonehenge was built slowly over a long period of time. Most historians believe it 
must be almost 5,000 years old. One of the greatest mysteries is how it was built 
because the stones are so big and heavy. In 
2001, a group of English volunteers tried to 
build another Stonehenge, but they couldn’t. 
“We don’t really know who built Stonehenge,” 
says Paul Stoker. “And perhaps we might never 
know, but we do know they must have been 
hard-working — and great planners!”
