102
UNIT 13
Rethink, Reuse, Recycle!
Do you oft en throw away things you 
don’t need anymore? Have you ever 
thought about how these things can 
actually be put to good use? Nothing is a 
waste if you have a creative mind.
You have probably never heard of Amy Hayes, but 
she is a most unusual woman. She lives in a house 
in the UK that she built herself out of rubbish. 
Th e windows and doors come from old buildings 
around her town that were pulled down. Th e top 
of the house is an old boat turned upside down. 
And the gate in front of her house is made of 
rocks and old glass bott les. Amy recently won a 
prize from the Help Save Our Planet Society. Th e president said, “Amy is an  
inspiration to us all.”
Amy isn’t the only one who is good at recycling. 
Jessica Wong from Hong Kong uses old clothes that 
people don’t wear anymore to make bags. She has 
been doing this for a few years now. She opened a 
small shop where she sells her bags, and she has also 
set up a website to sell them online. She especially 
likes to use old jeans to make handbags. Her bags are 
cute and useful. “I plan to write a book about new 
ways to use old clothes,” she said. “I hope people can read my book and enjoy it!”
Wang Tao set up a small business in Shanghai four years ago. He is known for using 
iron and other materials from old cars to make beautiful art pieces. 
Some are large pieces that look like animals or humans, and 
some are smaller pieces you can put at home. Th e more popular 
works can even be seen in art shops around the city. Wang Tao 
hopes to set up a “metal art” theme park to show people the 
importance of environmental protection. Not only can the art 
bring happiness to others, but it also shows that even cold, hard 
iron can be brought back to life with a litt le creativity.
2a
Look at the title and the pictures in 2b. Can you guess what the passage 
is about?
UNDERSTANDING PREFIXES AND 
SUFFIXES
Recognize how preﬁ xes and sufﬁ xes 
may change the meanings of words 
and how they are used.
2b
Read the passage and complete the chart below.
Names
What materials did they use?
What did they make?
