43
When was it invented?
UNIT 6
3a
Read the passage 
quickly and match 
each paragraph with 
its main idea.
Paragraph 1 Lu Yu and his book Cha Jing
Paragraph 2 How tea spread to other countries
Paragraph 3 How tea was invented by accident
3c
Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the verbs in the box.
invent
drink
bring
produce
trade
1. One of the world’s favorite drinks was 
 by accident.
2. Tea was fi rst 
 by Shen Nong about 5,000 years ago.
3. A nice smell was 
 when the tea leaves dropped into the hot water.
4. Tea was 
 to Korea and Japan during the 6th and 7th centuries.
5. Tea is now 
 between many diﬀ erent countries.
3b
Read the passage again 
and answer the questions.s.
1. When was tea fi rst drunk?
2. How was tea invented?
3. Who is called “the saint of tea”?
4. What is Cha Jing about?
5. When was tea brought to other countries?
An Accidental Invention
Did you know that tea, the most popular drink in the world (aft er water), was 
invented by accident? Many people believe that tea was fi rst drunk about 5,000 
years ago. It is said that a Chinese ruler called Shen Nong was the fi rst to discover 
tea as a drink. One day Shen Nong was boiling drinking water over an open fi re. 
Some leaves from a tea plant fell into the water and remained there for some time. 
It produced a nice smell so he tasted the brown water. It was quite delicious, and 
so, one of the world’s favorite drinks was invented.
A few thousand years later, Lu Yu, “the saint of tea”, 
mentioned Shen Nong in his book Cha Jing. Th e book 
describes how tea plants were grown and used to make 
tea. It also discusses where the fi nest tea leaves were 
produced and what kinds of water were used.
It is believed that tea was brought to Korea and Japan 
during the 6th and 7th centuries. In England, tea didn’t 
appear until around 1660, but in less than 100 years, 
it had become the national drink. Th e tea trade from 
China to Western countries took place in the 19th century. Th is helped to spread 
the popularity of tea and the tea plant to more places around the world. Even 
though many people now know about tea culture, the Chinese are without doubt 
the ones who best understand the nature of tea.
