54
UNIT 7
Should I Be Allowed to Make 
My Own Decisions?
Many teenagers have hobbies. But sometimes these can get in the way of their 
schoolwork, and parents might worry about their success at school. Teenagers  
oft en think they should be allowed to practice their hobbies as much as they want. 
Do you agree?
Liu Yu, a fi ft een-year-old boy from Shandong, is 
a running star. He is on his school team and has 
always wanted to be a professional runner when 
he grows up. However, his parents won’t allow 
him to train so much. “Of course we want to 
see him achieve his dreams,” says Mr. Liu. “And 
we know how much he loves running. My wife 
and I have supported every one of his races. We 
have nothing against running! But we think our 
son needs to think about other possible jobs. He’s gett ing older now, so he needs 
to think about what will happen if he doesn’t end up as a professional runner.”
Liu Yu doesn’t really agree. “Well, I think I should be allowed to decide for myself,” 
he says. “My parents have always taught me how important it is to work hard at 
school and enter university. I understand this, but I’m serious about running. It’s 
the only thing I’ve ever wanted to do.”
His parents believe that Liu Yu should study hard in the evenings so they don’t 
allow him to practice running at night. “Maybe he thinks it’s too strict or unfair,” 
says Mrs. Liu. “But we think we’re doing the right thing. He needs to spend more 
time on his homework because it is diﬃ  cult to become a professional sports star.”
But Liu Yu still disagrees. “I know my parents care about me. Th ey always talk 
about what will happen if I don’t succeed. But I will! I’m a quick runner! I think 
I should be allowed to make this choice myself. Only then will I have a chance to 
achieve my dream.”
2b
First, look at the title of the passage. Answer “yes” or “no”. Find out 
how many in your group agree with you. Th en read the passage. Does 
your answer change?
t i th
f th i
LEARNING ACTIVELY
When you learn any new 
language, actively use it in 
new sentences of your own.
2a
Discuss the questions 
in your groups.
Are you allowed to make your own decisions 
at home? What kinds of decisions?
