46
UNIT 6
Do You Know When Basketball
Was Invented?
Basketball is a much-loved and active sport 
that is enjoyed by many for fun and exercise. It is over 100 years old and is played by 
more than 100 million people in over 200 countries. It is believed that the fi rst basketball 
game in history was played on December 21, 1891. Th en in 1936 in Berlin, it became an 
event at the Olympics.
Basketball was invented by a Canadian doctor named James Naismith, who was 
born in 1861. When he was a college teacher, he was asked to think of a game that 
could be played in the winter. Dr. Naismith created a game to be played inside on 
a hard fl oor. Dr. Naismith divided the men in his class into two teams and taught 
them to play his new game. Players on the same team must work together to get the 
ball in the other team’s basket. At the same time, they need to stop the competing 
team from gett ing the ball into their own basket.
Today, the popularity of basketball has risen around the world, with many young 
people dreaming of becoming famous players. In China, you can sometimes see 
people playing basketball in parks, schools and 
even factories. Basketball has not only become 
a popular sport to play, but it has also become a 
popular sport to watch. Although America’s NBA 
games are the most famous, the CBA games are 
becoming more popular in China. Th e number of 
foreign players, including Chinese players, in the 
NBA has increased. Th ere are also more and more 
foreign players in the CBA. Many young people 
look up to these basketball heroes and want to 
become like them. Th ese stars encourage young 
people to work hard to achieve their dreams.
2a
Do you like basketball? Do you watch basketball games? How much do 
you know about this sport? Discuss the sport with your partner and 
share your ideas with the class.
2b
Read the passage quickly. What is the main idea of each paragraph?
ld
d
l
db
MIND-MAPPING
Changing the information you 
read into a mind map may 
help you remember it more 
easily.
