86
UNIT 11
2a
Have you ever made a mistake? How did it make you feel? Talk to your 
partner about what happened.
2b
Read the story and number the events in the correct order.
RECOGNIZING IDIOMS AND PHRASES
Knowing the meanings of idioms  
and verb phrases can improve your 
English.
Th e Winning Team
Peter kept his eyes on the ground. He 
felt like there was a heavy weight on his 
shoulders as he walked home alone. It 
was the worst day of his life. His mind would not stop thinking about what happened 
only just an hour ago on the school soccer fi eld. How could he have missed scoring 
that goal? He had let his whole team down. His stupid mistake made him angry. His 
team had lost the game because of him. He was really worried that his coach might 
kick him oﬀ  the team.
As soon as he walked through the door, his father asked, “What’s wrong, son?” 
Peter’s feelings were writt en all over his face. “I lost the game,” Peter replied. Th en 
he went into his room without another word. Ten minutes later, Peter heard his 
father knocking on his bedroom door. He opened the door to let him in.
“Look, Peter. I don’t know what happened. But whatever it was, don’t be too hard 
on yourself.”
“I lost the game, Dad. I failed my team. Th ey’ll probably never let me play again.”
“Soccer is about team eﬀ ort. You’re not the only reason your team lost. If you have 
a good team, you should support each other. Besides, winning or losing is only half 
the game. Th e other half is learning how to communicate with your teammates and 
learning from your mistakes.”
Peter didn’t say anything, but what his father said made him think carefully.
Th e next day, Peter went to soccer practice with courage rather than fear in his heart.
“Hey, guys,” he said to his teammates. “I’m really sorry about yesterday. We were 
so close to winning that game. But I think if we continue to pull together, we’re 
going to win the next one.”
To his surprise and relief, his teammates all 
nodded in agreement.
“Yeah,” they said, “don’t worry about it. It’s 
never just one person’s fault. We should think 
about how we can do bett er next time.”
Peter smiled. It made him feel lucky to know 
that he was on a winning team.
