6
UNIT 1
2a
What good learning habits can you think of? Make a list and discuss 
them with your partner.
How Can You Become 
a Successful Learner?
Everyone is born with the ability to learn. 
But whether or not you can do this well depends on your learning habits. Research 
shows that successful learners have some good habits in common.
Creating an interest in what they learn
Studies show that if you are interested in something, your brain is more active 
and it is also easier for you to pay att ention to it for a long time. Good learners 
oft en connect what they need to learn with something interesting. For example, if 
they need to learn English and they like music or sports, they can listen to English 
songs or watch sports programs in English. Th is way they will not get bored.
Practicing and learning from mistakes
Good learners think about what they are good at and what they need to practice more. 
Remember, “Use it or lose it.” Even if you learn something well, you will forget it 
unless you use it. “Practice makes perfect.” Good learners will keep practicing what 
they have learned, and they are not afraid of making mistakes. Alexander Graham Bell 
did not invent the telephone overnight. He succeeded by trying many times and learning 
from his mistakes.
Developing their study skills
It is not enough to just study hard. Good learners know the best way they can study. 
For example, they may take notes by writing down key words or by drawing mind 
maps. Th ey also look for ways to review what they have learned. Th ey may do this by 
reading their notes every day or by explaining the information to another student.
Asking questions
Good learners oft en ask questions during or aft er class. 
Th ey even ask each other and try to fi nd out the answers. 
Knowledge comes from questioning.
Learning is a lifelong journey because every day brings 
something new. Everything that you learn becomes a 
part of you and changes you, so learn wisely and learn 
well.
2b
Read the passage quickly and check if any of the habits you listed in 2a 
are mentioned. Which four habits of successful learners can you fi nd 
from the passage?
d
l
i
h bit R
h
USING DICTIONARIES
This can help you ﬁ nd the 
deﬁ nition that matches the 
context of the word in the text.
