53
Will people have robots?
UNIT 7
2b
Read the article and match each paragraph with the question it discusses.
Paragraph 1 
 
Will robots think like humans in the future? 
Paragraph 2 
 
What will robots be like in the future? 
Paragraph 3 
 
What can robots do today?
Paragraph 4 
 
What are robots like in movies?
2a
Tell your partner what you know about robots. What do they look like 
and what can they do?
Do You Th ink You Will Have Your Own Robot?
When we watch movies about the future, we sometimes see robots. Th ey 
are usually like human servants. Th ey help with the housework and do 
jobs like working in dirty or dangerous places.
Today there are already robots working in factories. Some can help to build 
cars, and they do simple jobs over and over again. Fewer people will do such 
jobs in the future because they are boring, but robots will never get bored.
Scientists are now trying to make 
robots look like humans and do the 
same things as we do. Some robots 
in Japan can walk and dance. Th ey 
are fun to watch. However, some 
scientists believe that although we 
can make robots move like people, 
it will be diﬃ  cult to make them 
really think like a human. For example, scientist James White thinks that 
robots will never be able to wake up and know where they are. But many 
scientists disagree with Mr. White. Th ey think that robots will even be 
able to talk like humans in 25 to 50 years. 
Some scientists believe that there will be more robots in the future. However, 
they agree it may take hundreds of years. Th ese new robots will have many 
diﬀ erent shapes. Some will look like humans, and others might look like 
animals. In India, for example, scientists made robots that look like snakes. If 
buildings fall down with people inside, these snake robots can help look for 
people under the buildings. Th is was not possible 20 years ago, but computers 
and rockets also seemed impossible 100 years ago. We never know what will 
happen in the future!
1.
2.
3.
4.
