===== PAGE 8 =====
Heritage is our legacy from the 
past, what we live with today, 
and what we pass on to future 
generations.
—World Heritage Centre
   In this unit, you will 
1  read about the Aswan Dam project.
2  listen to a news report and talk about culture 
    and history.
3  write a news report about someone who works 
    to protect cultural heritage.
4  learn about world cultural heritage sites.
   Look and discuss
1  What do you know about the place in the 
    photo?
2  What do you think of when you hear the 
    phrase “cultural heritage”?
 
CULTURAL
HERITAGE
UNIT 1
1

===== PAGE 9 =====
Take part in a youth project
1    Before you listen, look at the pictures below.  What are the students doing?
To guess the meaning of 
new words, look at the 
other words and use what 
you know about the topic.
Use context to guess 
words
EXAMPLE
The palace was destroyed years ago. By studying old photos of the 
former palace, they have made the new one look exactly like the old 
one.
Clues:	 destroyed years ago; studying old photos; made the new 
palace like the old one
Guess:	 The former palace means “the palace that 
”.
4    Practise using context clues to guess the meaning of new words. Look at the 
example and fill in the blank.  
2	 Listen to the conversation and choose the main idea.
A  Students from different countries are working creatively to protect a temple in China.
B  Youths from seven countries are working together to protect cultural relics on Mount Tai.
C  Doing a project on cultural heritage protection in China is interesting and exciting.
Listening and Speaking
International youth project, 
 high school students from 7 countries
Mount Tai, one of the most 
 mountains in China
It has been 
 for more than 3,000 years.
22 temples, around 1,800 
 with writing on them
Dai Temple on 
; over 6,000 
3	 Listen again and help the reporter to complete the interview notes.
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
2

===== PAGE 10 =====
5	 Listen to the conversation again and use the context to guess the meaning of the 
words below. Tick the reason why you were able to guess the words.
   
Pronunciation
  1	 Listen and tick the word that you hear.
	
1   present /  pleasant	
2   crew /  grew	
3   scream /  cream	
  
	
4   exist /  exists	
5   twelve /  twelfth	
6   confident /  confused
     Check your answers with a partner. Then listen again and repeat.
	
	 2	 Read the sentences and pay attention to the underlined words.
	
1   Yuanmingyuan? Just across the street. /  Yuanmingyuan? Just cross the street.
	
2   Bruce referred to the guidebook. /  Bruce preferred the guidebook.
	
3   The dragon followed its tail. /  The dragon followed its trail. 
	
4   It is a different context. /  It is a different contest.
	
5   The trays were dark green. /  The trains were dark green.
  3	 Listen and repeat. 
7	 Work in pairs and discuss the questions.
1	 Would you like to take part in a project like this? Why or why not? 
2	 Could you think of more ways to protect the cultural heritage? Write them down.
Reason
Preserve
Promote
Cypress
The word is an example of a group/type I know. 
The word is explained by the speaker.
The word means the opposite of a word I know. 
The word means the same as a word I know. 
I know the general meaning of the word.	
The speaker gives an example of the word.
6	 Help the reporter to complete the news report based on what you hear and the 
interview notes.
International Youth Camp Members Create Mount Tai App
Tai’an, 18 June 2019. A group of high school students who 
are taking part in an international youth camp at Mount Tai 
are creating a(n) 
 about China’s most famous 
mountain. The purpose of the camp is to 
 
Mount Tai by introducing it to young people in a fun and 
easy way. The students are making an app about Mount 
Tai and taking photos of the 
 and stones. The 
volunteers also visit middle schools in the area in order to 
talk to local teenagers. Liu Bin, a member of the camp, says 
that he is 
 to help Mount Tai as people have done for more than 3,000 years.
  UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
3

===== PAGE 11 =====
Understand how a problem was solved
FROM PROBLEMS TO SOLUTIONS 
Economic development is necessary if we want to improve society. There comes a time 
when the old must give way to the new, and it is not possible to preserve everything from 
our past as we move towards the future. Finding and keeping the right balance between 
progress and the protection of cultural sites can be a big challenge. 
Big challenges, however, can sometimes lead to great solutions. In the 1950s, the Egyptian 
government wanted to build a new dam across the Nile in order to control floods, produce 
electricity, and supply water to more farmers in the area. But the proposal led to protests. 
Water from the dam would likely damage a number of temples and destroy cultural relics 
that were an important part of Egypt’s cultural heritage. After listening to the scientists who 
had studied the problem, and citizens who lived near the dam, the government turned to 
the United Nations for help in 1959.
A committee was established to limit damage to the Egyptian buildings and prevent 
the loss of cultural relics. The group asked for contributions from different departments 
and raised funds within the international community. Experts investigated the issue, 
conducted several tests, and then made a proposal for how the buildings could be saved. 
Finally, a document was signed, and the work began in 1960.
The project brought together governments and environmentalists from around the world. 
Temples and other cultural sites were taken down piece 
by piece, and then moved and put back together again 
in a place where they were safe from the water. In 1961, 
German engineers moved the first temple. Over the next 
20 years, thousands of engineers and workers rescued 
22 temples and countless cultural relics. Fifty countries 
donated nearly $80 million to the project.
When the project ended in 1980, it was considered a 
great success. Not only had the countries found a path to 
the future that did not run over the relics of the past, but 
they had also learnt that it was possible for countries to 
work together to build a better tomorrow.
The spirit of the Aswan Dam project is still alive today. 
Perhaps the best example is shown by UNESCO, 
which runs a programme that prevents world cultural 
heritage sites around the world from disappearing. If a 
problem seems too difficult for a single nation, the global 
community can sometimes provide a solution.
Reading and Thinking 
1	 Read the title and look at the photos. What do you think the text is about?
2	 Scan the text for numbers. Circle the numbers and guess what they mean.
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
4

===== PAGE 12 =====
3    Read the text again and answer the questions.
1	 Why did the Egyptian government want to attempt 
the building of the dam?
2	 How were the temples and other cultural sites saved?
3	 How long did it take to complete the project?
Making a timeline that 
shows when different events 
happened can help you 
understand how the events 
are connected to each other.
Make a timeline
5    Complete the news report with the correct forms of the words in the box. 
Then suggest a suitable title. 
Cairo, 16 March, 1956
In a speech today, a scientist gave her view on the new 
. She said that 
 is important and our area needs economic 
 as well. But she added, 
“We should not accept the project if it puts our cultural 
 in danger. We must protect 
the 
 and make sure that no 
 is done.” Before she ended her speech, 
the scientist suggested that we need to 
 a committee of experts to 
 
the cultural heritage and 
 it from being harmed. 
development      progress      proposal      preserve 
temple      damage      heritage      establish      prevent       
6    Discuss one or more of the questions below in groups.
1	 What were the solutions to the problem of building the Aswan Dam?
2	 A lot of money was spent to protect the temples. Do you think it was worthwhile? 
	
Why or why not?
3	 Why do you think so many countries contributed funds and offered help to 
	
the Egyptian project? 
4	 Complete the timeline with the information from the text. 
The project starts.	
The temples and cultural relics are being rescued.           
The project is completed.	 The first temple is moved.            The government asks the UN for help.
The project starts.
1960
  UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
5

===== PAGE 13 =====
Describe people or things in greater detail
1    Look at the sentences below and underline the relative pronouns and adverbs. 
After listening to the scientists who had studied the problem, and citizens who lived near the 
dam, the government turned to the United Nations for help.
Temples and other cultural sites were taken down piece by piece, and then moved and put 
back together again in a place where they were safe from the water.
	
Find more sentences containing relative clauses from the text on page 4, and 
discuss briefly with a partner the major functions of them. Then make a short 
summary in a table or mind map.
Discovering Useful Structures
3	 Work in pairs and play a game of definitions. One asks the questions below and 
the other answers them with relative clauses. Work out two more questions of 
your own.
EXAMPLE
A: 	What is an exit?
B: 	An exit is the door where / through which you can leave a building.
1	 What’s a library? (from/in which; where)	
2   What’s a good friend? (to whom; who)	
3   What’s a vacation? (during which; when)	
4   What’s a football coach? (from whom; who)
2	 Rewrite the sentences using relative clauses.
EXAMPLE
I have downloaded that free app, but it doesn’t work well.→  
The free app (which/that) I have downloaded doesn’t work well.  
1	 He showed me a photo in his room. It was a photo of a famous cultural relic in Egypt.→  
	
The photo 
.
2	 The project team helped protect the national parks in the United Republic of Tanzania. It was 
	
formed by members from fifteen countries.→  
	
The project team 
.
3	 This temple was first built during the Qin Dynasty.→  
	
The time 
.
4	 We met a professional archaeologist at the entrance to the Great Pyramid. He 	
	
	
	
explained to us the process of building such a difficult structure.→  
	
The professional archaeologist 
.
5	 The documents about the cultural relics from overseas are under the desk. I found them 	
	
	
yesterday.→  
	
The place 
.
6	 Scientists worked together day and night to rescue the temple because they wanted to preserve it 
    for the next generation.→  
	
The reason 
.
	
Discuss with a partner: Which relative pronouns can be deleted in your 
sentences? When can you go without the relative pronouns like this?
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
6

===== PAGE 14 =====
Talk about history and culture
Listening and Talking
EXAMPLE
Tourist A:	
I beg your pardon, but is this the Xuanyuan Mirror? 
	
	
Could you please tell me about it?
Tour guide:	 Yes, it is. It is said that it’s a mirror that can tell right from wrong!
	
	
… I see that you’re looking at that carving on the roof. Did you 
know that it’s called chiwen—one of the nine sons of the 
Chinese dragon?
Tourist B:	
No, I didn’t. That’s so interesting!
3	 Work in groups. Choose a cultural site that you like and role-play a conversation 
between some tourists and their tour guide. Take turns to play the different roles.
2	 What do you know about the Kremlin and Red Square? Listen again and 
complete the fact sheet.
World Cultural Heritage Site Fact Sheet
THE KREMLIN AND RED SQUARE, MOSCOW
• Built between the 
 and 
 centuries
• The palace where 
 lives
• The Saint Basil’s Cathedral looks like 
.
• The 
 part of Moscow
• Place for parades, concerts, and even 
 
The Forbidden City
I beg your pardon, but …   
Forgive me for asking, but …   
Excuse me, but what is …? 
Excuse me. Could you please tell me 
about …? 
Do/Did you know …? 
I see that you are …
Starting a conversation
1	 Listen to the conversation and choose the correct answers.
1	 Where are the speakers?	
A  On a street.	
B  On a plane.	
C  On a bus.
2	 What are they doing?	
A  Drawing a map.	
B  Sightseeing.	
C  Studying culture.
  UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
7

===== PAGE 15 =====
1	 Read the news report and answer the questions.
Write a news report
PROMOTING CULTURE 
THROUGH DIGITAL IMAGES
Lanzhou, 9 August 2017. A group of researchers and scientists from China and other countries are 
working together to help increase knowledge and appreciation of China’s ancient cultural heritage. 
They are recording and collecting digital images of cultural relics from the Mogao Caves, which 
were a key stop along the Silk Road throughout China’s ancient history. Nearly 500,000 high-
quality digital photographs have been produced since the international project started in 1994. 
The Mogao Caves have long been a meeting point for different cultures and are part of the history 
of many countries. Today, the caves are just as international as they were at the time when people 
travelled the Silk Road. Tourists from all over the world visit Dunhuang to see the caves, and the 
Getty Museum in Los Angeles has even reproduced a copy of the 
caves and paintings for people to admire in America. 
By sharing so many digital photos over the Internet, the group 
hopes to promote even wider interest around the world in 
China’s ancient history, culture, and traditions. They also hope 
to further educate people about the importance of safeguarding 
historic and cultural relics for future generations to understand 
and appreciate. As one researcher who is working on the project 
explains, “Appreciating one’s own cultural heritage is very 
important for understanding oneself. Appreciating the cultural 
heritage of other countries is very important for international 
communication and understanding.”
1	 What are the researchers and scientists trying to do? 
	
What modern technology are they using?
2	 Why are so many people interested in the Mogao Caves?
3	 What do you think of the researcher’s opinion in the last paragraph? 
Reading for Writing 
2	 Study the organisation and language features.
1   Read the news report again and find these parts.
	
A  Lead sentence	
B  Direct quote	
C  Paraphrase
	
D  Background information	 E  Reporting verbs	 F  Words to show comparison and/or contrast
2	 Underline the relative clauses that the writer uses to identify the following.
	
A  things	
B  people	
C  time  
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
8

===== PAGE 16 =====
3	 Write a news report about a person or group who works to protect our 
cultural heritage. You can use the interview notes below or write about a 
person or group that you know of.
1	 Read the interview notes.
Chen Lei, Wuhan 
Protectors of the Past, Wuhu
 senior teacher
 takes photos of old buildings
 wants to preserve cultural heritage
 interviews old people
 writes about the buildings 
 visits schools to tell students about …
 protect old houses
 help repair buildings
 look for cultural relics
 show cultural relics to the public
 raise money
 repair temples and cultural relics
3	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to help each other revise the drafts.
        	
	 Is there a title?
       	
	 Does the lead sentence tell the reader about the situation?
	
	 Has the writer included details and explanations?
        	
	 Are there quotes and paraphrases?
	
	 Does the writer use relative clauses to identify people, places, things, times, etc.?
        	
	 Does the writer end with a short summary?
        	
	 Are there any grammar or spelling mistakes?
4	 Put up your news report in the classroom.  
2	 Draft a news report in which you explain what the person or group does.
Headline
Lead sentence
Body
Tell the reader 
the facts, details, 
examples, etc.
Ending
 Write a title to get the 
  readers’ attention.
 Tell the readers who, what, 
  where, and why.
 Explain what the 
  person or group does.
 Use relative clauses. 
 Use quotes and 
  paraphrases.
 End with a short 
  summary to help the 
  readers remember the 
  main idea.
Neither people nor 
buildings last forever, but 
Chen Lei’s photos can 
help us remember them.
Every day, Chen Lei takes 
his camera and …
Chen Lei is a senior 
teacher who takes photos 
of old buildings in Wuhan 
in order to preserve the 
city’s cultural heritage. 
A PICTURE IS WORTH A 
THOUSAND WORDS
  UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
9

===== PAGE 17 =====
1	 How can you take part in cultural heritage protection? Read the passage. 
Then complete the phrases below and use them to finish the passage.
in    to    from    a balance    sure
be proud 
donate sth 
make 
keep 
lead 
turn	 
prevent 
take part 
Getting young people to 
 activities to protect their national heritage is a good way 
to introduce them to their country’s history. As they learn more about where they come from, 
they will hopefully 
 tell others about their country and culture. Of course, teachers 
must 
 between teaching the good and bad parts of a country’s history. Learning only 
the good parts can 
 narrow thinking. Learning the bad parts may help 
 
those kinds of things 
 happening again. Students who know their history and 
culture are more likely to 
 that their cultural heritage is protected, and teachers can 
motivate students by asking them to come up with their own ideas and make proposals for 
ways to protect this. One possible idea is for students to raise or 
 money 
 
an organisation or group that protects their country’s cultural heritage. Teachers may also 
 their local museums or historical societies for help in getting students more 
interested in this important field.
Assessing Your Progress
2	 Read the conversation and learn about intangible cultural heritage (ICH). 
Then complete it with the correct relative pronouns or adverbs.
A:	 My teacher just gave us a task 
 I really don’t know how to do. I have to take part 
in an organisation 
 protects our cultural heritage.
B:	 Oh, that sounds interesting! Where are you planning to go? I’m sure there are all kinds of 
historic sites 
 cultural relics need to be protected.
A:	 Yes, but I’m not one of those people 
 love museums. I think they’re kind of boring. 
I like going on field trips 
 I can experience and do things to protect cultural relics.
B:	 Cultural heritage is a lot more than just relics, you know. For example, our country has 
many nationalities 
 dances, crafts, and other traditions are also very important. If 
we don’t protect those traditions, there may come a time 
 they disappear.
 	Did you find it easy or difficult to talk about culture and history? Why or why not? 
.
 	What was the most interesting part of this unit and why?  
.
	 How does learning about cultural heritage affect your opinion about your role in 
protecting your culture? 
.
 	Overall, I thought this unit was   
 good   
 useful   
 so-so   
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
10

===== PAGE 18 =====
*Project: Learn about intangible cultural heritage 
A country’s cultural heritage includes not only temples, palaces, and other cultural relics, 
but also its traditions, customs, and knowledge, such as dances, arts, and crafts. Learn 
more about intangible cultural heritage and prepare a class presentation.
 Are you familiar with any of these examples of Chinese ICH? Tell your partner what you 
  know about them. 
 Have you ever observed or taken part in any of them? If so, when and where? Share  
  your experiences with your partner.
 What other kinds of ICH do you know about? Share what you know with your partner.
2	 Work in groups. Choose something that represents ICH. Use the library or the 
Internet to do research. You can refer to the questions below as a guide.
  What is it?	
  What are its characteristics?
  What does it look like?	
  How is it used/done/made?
  Who uses/does it?	
  Does it have any symbolic meaning?
  Why should we protect it?  	
  How can we protect it?
3	 Make a presentation to the class about the ICH that you have chosen.
1	 Work in pairs. Look at the examples of Chinese ICH and discuss the questions.
  UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
11

===== PAGE 19 =====
The Great Wall
The Great Wall of China is the largest structure ever 
made and one of the great wonders of the world. 
This makes it an important cultural heritage site not 
just for China, but for all people around the world.  
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Match the phrases below with the pictures from the video. 
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Read the statements and decide whether they are true (T) or false (F).
1  Every part of the Great Wall is easy to find and see.	
T
	
F
	
2  The Great Wall took 2,300 years to build.	
T
	
F
	
	
3  Some of the Great Wall has been lost.	
T
	
F
	
4  The length of the Great Wall is the same as the distance between	
T
	
F
 
the North and South Poles. 	
2	 Complete the sentences below with the words you hear in the video.
1  We are 
 and we usually come here once a month.
2  But when we are not busy with school, we come here 
.
3  We hope more people will protect our 
. 
4  We need to protect the Great Wall, so we can present it to the future generations 
and let our cultural imprint 
.
AFTER  YOU WATCH
     
Discuss the questions in pairs.
1   Why is it important to protect cultural heritage sites like the Great Wall?
2   Are there any important cultural heritage sites in your area? 
     What can you do to help protect and take care of them?
A  surveyors and archaeologists studying the Great Wall	
B  weeds speeding up its collapse 
C  volunteers taking care of the Great Wall 	
D  sections fallen into ruins             
* Video Time
UNIT 1 CULTURAL HERITAGE 
12
