===== PAGE 20 =====
UNIT 2 WILDLIFE 
PROTECTION
   In this unit, you will 
1  read about the protection of Tibetan antelopes.
2  listen to and discuss facts and opinions about 
    endangered wildlife.
3  design a poster about an endangered species.
4  learn about ways to care for wildlife.
   Look and discuss
1  What do you think of when you see this photo?
2  Do you think that elephants are an endangered species?
3  What other wild animals are in danger?
When the buying stops,
the killing can too.
—WildAid
13
13

===== PAGE 21 =====
Talk about saving endangered wildlife
1	 Before you listen, discuss these 
questions in pairs.
1   What message do these posters share?
2   Which one moves you the most? Why?
Before you listen, look at 
pictures, charts, videos, and 
other visuals to help you 
predict what you will hear. 
Use visuals to 
predict content
Protect wildlife.
Say NO to
Shark fin soup.
Up to 73 million
sharks end up 
in shark fin soup
each year
Listening and Speaking
2	 Listen to the first part and fill in the blanks. 
   What 
on Earth 
Are We Doing 
to Our Planet?
Our planet’s 
 is dying out at an alarming 
rate. Between 150 and 200 species are becoming 
extinct every day. This mass extinction is caused 
by hunting, habitat 
, and pollution. We 
must make people aware of the problem and help 
 the endangered wildlife before it’s too late!
3	 Listen to the second part and answer the questions.
1   How many elephants are killed on average every day? 
2   What did Prince William say about China?
	
A  China has made a lot of progress.
	
B  China can become a global leader in wildlife protection.
	
C  China preserves its natural habitats well.
4	 Discuss the question in groups.
What does “Change begins with you” mean?
UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
14

===== PAGE 22 =====
5	 In pairs, discuss the questions, role-play the example, and then talk about one 
of the animals in the photos below.
1	 What do you know about the animals in the photos? 
2	 What is being done to help them? 
EXAMPLE
A:	 I’m concerned about the African elephants. What do you know about them?
B:	 Well, I know that they’re being hunted and their habitat is getting smaller, so 
	
they’re in danger of extinction. Elephants need large living spaces, so it’s difficult 
	
for them to adapt to the changes. 
A:	 That’s terrible. What measures are being taken to help them?
B:	 The authorities are under pressure to build elephant parks and tell people not to buy 
elephant products. 
  
   3	 Listen to the conversation in Activity 5, paying attention to the stress 
patterns of the polysyllabic words and repeat them. 
   2	 Check your answers with another pair. Then listen and repeat. 
Pronunciation
	
 1	 Work in pairs. Read the words aloud to each other, and put them into the 
correct groups. 
 and  stand for stressed syllables (
 for primary stress, 
and  for secondary stress), and  for unstressed syllable. 
alarming	
  announcement    authority	     architecture	    civilisation 
competition	
  contribution	       electricity	     investigate	     literary 
recommend	
  responsibility      vocabulary	    volunteer          refrigerator
EXAMPLE   
   	     habitat	
       	
 downstairs 
 
 
 
   
  
 
     
     
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
blue whale
panda
African elephants
  UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
15

===== PAGE 23 =====
1 Before you read, discuss these questions in pairs.
1	 Look at the pictures below. What do you think the text is about?
2	 What do you know about the Tibetan antelope and the Changtang 
National Nature Reserve?
Learn about protecting endangered animals
A DAY IN THE CLOUDS 
The air is thin and we have to rest several times on the short hike from 
camp. To our left, snow-covered mountains disappear into 
clouds that seem almost close enough to touch. On the plain 
in front of us, we can just make out a herd of graceful animals. 
This is why we’re here—to observe Tibetan antelopes.
Tibetan antelopes live on the plains of Tibet, Xinjiang, and Qinghai. Watching them move 
slowly across the green grass, I’m struck by their beauty. I’m also reminded of the danger 
they were in. They were hunted, illegally, for their valuable fur. 
My guide is Zhaxi, a villager from Changtang. He works at the Changtang National 
Nature Reserve. The reserve is a shelter for the animals and plants of northwestern 
Tibet. To Zhaxi, the land is sacred and protecting the wildlife is a way of life. “We’re 
not trying to save the animals,” he says. “Actually, we’re trying to save ourselves.” 
The 1980s and 1990s were bad times for the Tibetan antelope. The population 
dropped by more than 50 percent. Hunters were shooting antelopes to make profits. 
Their habitats were becoming smaller as new roads and railways were built. 
In order to save this species from extinction, the Chinese government placed it 
under national protection. Zhaxi and other volunteers watched over the antelopes 
day and night to keep them safe from attacks. Bridges and gates were added to let 
the antelopes move easily and keep them safe from cars and trains. 
The measures were effective. The antelope population has recovered and in June 
2015, the Tibetan antelope was removed from the endangered species list. The 
government, however, does not intend to stop the protection programmes, since 
the threats to the Tibetan antelope have not yet disappeared. 
In the evening, I drink a cup of tea and watch the stars. I think about the antelopes 
and what Zhaxi told me. Much is being done to protect wildlife, but if we really want 
to save the planet, we must change our way of life. Only when we learn to exist in 
harmony with nature can we stop being a threat to wildlife and to our planet. 
Reading and Thinking
16

===== PAGE 24 =====
2	 Read the text and answer the questions.
1	 Why did the writer visit Tibet? 
2	 What happened to the Tibetan antelope in the 1980s and 1990s?
3	 What did people do to help protect the Tibetan antelope?
4	 What does “national protection” mean? Can you list more examples?
5	 How does the writer feel about modern life? How do you know?
5	 Discuss the questions below in pairs.
The writer says that we must change our way of life and learn to live in harmony with nature in 
order to save our planet. Do you agree? What do you think we should do or change?
4	 Learn about elephants by reading and completing the passage with the 
correct forms of the words.
Herds of elephants used to live on the 
 of Africa 
and in the forests of Asia. But today, they face a serious 
 from 
. These large animals 
are being killed 
 for their body parts that are 
considered valuable. In order to save them, some countries have 
created 
 where they can live in peace and safety. 
However, the 
 on them will continue as long as 
interest in buying elephant products 
. To achieve 
 between humans and animals, the world must 
protect these beautiful creatures.
hunter	
illegally	
reserve	
attack 
exist	
plain	
harmony	
threat
3    Read the sentences below, and decide if each idea is the literal meaning (L) 
of the text or only implied (I) by the text. 
EXAMPLE
Literal meaning is the usual, 
basic meaning of the words, 
i.e. exactly what the words say.
Implied meaning is suggested 
but not directly expressed, i.e.  
you guess the meaning based 
on what you know.
Identify literal and implied 
meaning
I  The Tibetan antelope lives high above sea level.
      ( This is implied by “The air is thin”.)
 When they first saw the antelopes, they were very far away.
 We should not buy goods made from endangered animals.
 Human activities are threatening animals and plants.
 The Tibetan antelope is not an endangered species now.
  UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
17

===== PAGE 25 =====
Report an ongoing event
Discovering Useful Structures
3	 Liu Tao would like to express his concern over the wetland in his hometown. Help him 
finish the passage with the present continuous passive voice of the verbs in brackets.
In the wetland of my hometown, there are many different kinds of animals, including wild 
birds, fish, snakes, insects and so on. When I was in primary school, I often went there with 
my friends to watch the birds and study them. That was an interesting place for all of us. 
But things have begun to change in recent years. Small birds 
 (catch) with 
nets. Wild ducks 
 (sell) at food markets. Fish and snakes 
 (kill) 
for food in restaurants. And even worse, the wetland 
 (destroy). Some parts 
 (cover) with new houses. You can see rubbish everywhere. The wetland 
 (pollute) seriously every day. I am very worried about it. What can we do?
4	 In groups, discuss the questions below. Prepare to give a presentation of your 
ideas to the class.
What do you know is being done in your neighbourhood to protect animals and plants? 
What suggestions do you have?
*
	
Find more sentences with the same verb form in this unit. 
1	 Underline the present continuous passive voice in the sentences and discuss its  
function.
  African elephants are being hunted.
  What is being done to help them?
  What measures are being taken to help them?
2	 Choose the suitable verb forms to complete the sentences. 
1	 I’m (working / being worked) at home today because my office is (painted / being painted).
2	 The alarming report is (written / being written). It will be finished soon.
3	 What part of the city is (attacked / being attacked) now?
4	 Right now, the deer are (watched / being watched) over by many volunteers.
5	 Who is (hunting / being hunted) the kangaroos? Where are they (hunted / being hunted)? 
6	 It is reported that living spaces for wildlife are (reduced / being reduced) due to the cutting of 
trees.  
18

===== PAGE 26 =====
Help the wildlife in your neighbourhood
Listening and Talking
5	 Think of other wildlife in your neighbourhood and their needs. What can you 
do to care for them? Discuss their needs and solutions in groups. 
EXAMPLE
	
A:	 I often see wild cats in our neighbourhood. Maybe we should do something to care for them.
	
B:	 Should we put out bowls of food for them?
	C:	 Sure, and I think we could also put out boxes or other things for them, so that they can 
find shelter when it’s cold or wet outside.
	
1	 Match the words with the pictures.
A
B
1  binoculars 
2  bird feeder 
3  bird field guide 
C
3	 Listen and answer the questions.
1  Who are the teenagers?	
2   Where are they?  
3  What are they doing?	
4   Why are they doing it?  
4	 Listen again and use the phrases you hear to fill in the blanks.
1	 They got up early 
 search for wild birds.
2	 I’ve brought a field guide 
 we can look up the birds we see.
3	 My dad gave me the binoculars 
 we can see the birds better.
4	 Birdwatching clubs clean up habitats, build bird feeders, and put paper cut-outs on 
windows 
 protect birds.
2	 Choose the right ending for each sentence.
1   Binoculars 
.
2   Build bird feeders 
.
3   Use a bird field guide 
.
4   Put paper cut-outs on windows 
.
      A   in order to identify birds
      B   so that birds do not crash into them
      C   to make sure that birds have enough food
      D   are used for watching birds from far away
Expressing purposes
This is used for …
I did it to / in order to / 
so as to …
He has done it so that / 
in order that …
  UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
19

===== PAGE 27 =====
1 Look at the posters below. Which emotions do the photos communicate?
Make an effective poster
 funny         surprising         frightening         sad         ...
poster on the left
Opinion
poster on the right
I think it’s …
Reading for Writing
3	 Look at the posters again. Discuss the questions in groups.
1  What does each poster use to stir up emotions?
2  Who do you think is the intended audience for each poster? Why do you think so?
3  What does each poster want people to do? How do you know?
4  In your opinion, which poster is more effective? Why?
2 Read the posters and write a one-sentence summary for each.
Don’t 
Make Paper  
with My Home!
Billions of trees are being cut 
down every year to make 
paper for humans. Every tree 
that is cut down is a part of the 
habitat of animals such as these 
koalas. In this way a lot of animal 
homes are being destroyed! 
Is it right to make animals 
homeless so that humans can 
have more paper? 
When it comes to wildlife protection, all 
species—the good, the bad, and the ugly—
should be treated equally. Pandas, dolphins, 
and other cute wildlife are important, but we 
must pay attention to less cute animals, too. 
The world needs all kinds—without variety, 
our planet cannot survive. So if you want the 
future to be beautiful, you have to give ugly 
a chance.
Give Ugly a 
Chance!
UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
20

===== PAGE 28 =====
4	 Work in pairs. Make a poster about an endangered animal.
1	 Choose one of the animals below or one of your own. Do some research to add to the 
animal fact sheet.
South China Tiger
Why is it endangered? Habitat loss; hunted for its skin and fur 
What is being done? A plan is being carried out to increase 
the number of wild tigers.
What can we do? Do not buy fur or other tiger products!
Yangtze River Dolphin
Why is it endangered? Habitat loss 
What is being done? Reserves are being built for them, and 
they are being searched for in the wild.
What can we do? Clean up the rivers!
2	 Follow these steps to organise your poster.
Write a title that is simple, interesting, and unusual, 
and then collect the information you need.
Write the name of the species and why it is endangered.
Use a powerful image to attract the readers’ attention 
to the facts and problems.
Tell the readers what you want them to think and do.
1
2
3
4
5	 Exchange posters with another pair. Use this checklist to give them helpful 
feedback.
  Does the poster include key information about the animal? 
  Does the poster explain why it is endangered?
  Does the poster support its information with facts?
  Is the message of the poster clear, i.e. can you tell clearly what the designer       
wants the reader to think or do?
  Is the image on the poster effective?
6	 Put up the poster in your classroom or in a public place.
  UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
21

===== PAGE 29 =====
1	 Complete the phrases and use them to finish the passage. 
2	 Read and complete the passage with the present continuous passive voice of 
the verbs in brackets.
It may seem that protecting wildlife is something far from the life of a high school 
student, but in fact, a lot 
 (do) by young people around the world. In 
Washington State, USA, wolverines ( 貂熊) 
 (study) by scientists in an effort 
to learn how to preserve the population. However, during the winter, it is difficult to 
attract the animals to cameras hidden in snowy forests. A group of students heard 
about the problem and created a special device which 
 (test) deep in a 
snowy forest now. Their invention 
 (use) to send out a certain smell near the 
cameras. The shy animals are attracted by the smell and coming around the cameras. 
They 
 (observe) by a conservation researcher. 
What do you think of the invention?
Think about what the WWF does to protect wildlife.
The World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) 
 the many 
species of plants and animals that 
 around the 
world. The WWF wants more people to 
 the 
problem, so they will stop hurting wildlife and 
 
solutions. Very few people in modern society actually intend 
to harm animals. Most people do not realise that many animal 
species cannot 
 the changes brought about by 
modern civilisation. It is for this reason that the WWF constantly 
 information to stir up public interest in the welfare 
of the planet.
adapt 
	
die 
	
be concerned 
search 
	
put 
	
be aware 
about          for          of          out          to          up
Assessing Your Progress
  In this unit, I was especially moved by 
    because 
.
  I thought the most helpful part of the unit was 
    because 
.
  I thought the most difficult part of the unit was 
    because 
.
  Overall, I thought this unit was   
 wonderful   
 good   
 so-so   
 too hard.
REFLECTING 
UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
22

===== PAGE 30 =====
*Project: Plan an animal rescue centre
Endangered animals are not the only animals that need help and protection. All animals need help 
at times, such as pets that are left homeless when their owners move or wounded birds that fall to 
the ground. They can be kept in an animal rescue centre for some time until they recover. 
1    Here is part of a report about an animal rescue centre. Read the passage and 
then tell your partner about it. The questions may help you.
3	 Make a poster in which you describe your animal rescue centre and ask for 
help. Put up the poster on the classroom wall.
2    Think about animals that need help. Plan an animal rescue centre for them. 
Discuss the questions in groups.
 What will it be called?	
                             
 What can we do to help the animals?	   
 What skills or equipment do we need?      
 Where should the centre be built?        
 What help could people offer?
Small Friends Pet Shelter
The Small Friends Pet Shelter was started by a 
group of high school students and their parents 
when they started to see many pets that were 
left behind after their families moved away.
Today, there are about 70 cats, 50 dogs, 
three rabbits, and a few turtles living at the 
shelter. The young people who run the shelter 
work hard to keep the place clean, take care 
of the animals, and advertise the animals so 
that they can be adopted. 
They have already helped to find homes for 
nearly 200 animals. It is hard work, but the 
young people working at the shelter think it is 
worth it.
So if you find a pet that is lost, call the young 
people at Small Friends Pet Shelter! And if you 
want to help out, go and volunteer your time 
and love. That is what the animals really need 
most.
1   What is the rescue centre called?
2   Who started it?
3   What animals were rescued? 
4   What help does the centre need?
  UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
23

===== PAGE 31 =====
The Elephant Whisperers
The elephant whisperers are the elephant 
keepers who work for a programme in Kenya. 
The organisation aims to rescue and raise orphan 
elephants, and then return them to the wild. So far, 
it has helped hundreds of baby elephants. 
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Arrange the following items in the order you see them in the video. Write 
the numbers 1–7 on the lines.
	
A  Two elephants make friends.	
	
B  The elephant keepers lead the elephants into the forest.	
	
C  A keeper sings to the elephants.	
	
D  The elephants play football.	
	
E  An elephant keeper feeds an elephant some leaves.	
	
F  The keepers put the elephants to bed.	
	
G  The keepers feed the elephants milk using bottles.	
3	 Answer the questions using information from the video.
	
1  According to the elephant keeper, in what way are elephants like people?
	
2  What is the most important thing elephants must learn at the centre?
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 Why is this programme important for elephants and for the world?
2	 Have you ever taken care of a baby animal? In what ways is it similar to or different from 
taking care of a human baby?
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
	
Look at the title, introduction, and picture. Then guess whether the  
statements are true (T) or false (F).
1	 The elephants’ mothers left them alone.	
T
	
F
	
2	 The baby elephants all come from different areas of Kenya. 	
T
	
F
	
3	 The native environment of the elephants is the forest. 	
T
	
F
	
4	 The keepers have to feed the elephants every four hours, day and night.	
T
	
F
	  
5	 The keepers have to sleep with the elephants. 	
T
	
F
	  
* Video Time
UNIT 2 WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
24
