===== PAGE 32 =====
3
UNIT 
THE
INTERNET
The Internet is becoming the town square 
for the global village of tomorrow. 
—Bill Gates
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about online communities.
2  listen to people describe their online habits, 
    and talk about your own.
3  write a blog post about online safety.
4  learn about online education.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you usually do online?
2  How can you use the Internet to learn English?
3  Have you ever helped others to use the Internet? 	
	 How?
25
25

===== PAGE 33 =====
Ask about online habits
1	 Look at the online activities in the box and match them with the pictures. 
Then tick the pictures of the activities that you like to do when you are online.
 write a blog post	
 
 use a search engine	
       
 chat online	
 
 stream movies and music
Listening and Speaking
3	 Listen again and fill in the blanks to complete the sentences. 
1	 A blog 
 an online diary where you write about something you’re interested in. 
, I like basketball, so I write a lot on my blog about my favourite team.
2	 I stream videos and music. 
, I watch videos and listen to music online.
3	 A search engine 
 that helps you find what you’re looking for.
2	 Sam is doing a survey on online habits. He is now talking to his schoolmates Anna, 
Paul, and Joe. Listen to the conversation and complete the table.
Name
Anna
Paul
Joe
Time spent 
online every day
Online activities
Reasons for using the Internet
A
B
C
D
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
26

===== PAGE 34 =====
   
Pronunciation
1	 Most sentences have two basic types of words: content words and function 
words. Content words are usually stressed. Read the sentence and notice 
which words are stressed.
	
2	 Read the poem about online safety and mark the words that should be stressed.
   3	 Listen to the poem and see if you got the stressed words right.
The Internet is becoming the town square for the global village of tomorrow.
EXAMPLE
Cyber Sense
I always keep things secret when I go online.
I never share the things that should be only mine.
My email and my home address, my phone number and name—
These are things only I should know on websites or in games.
And so I use a nonsense name for my net identity.
When folks online ask who I am, I say, “I’m Cyber Me.”
And if I ever think that someone online isn’t all that bad,
I never ever meet them without telling Mum or Dad.
5	 Take turns to ask each other about your online habits. 
EXAMPLE
A:	 How much time do you spend online every day?
B:	 Oh, it’s hard to say. Sometimes I’m too busy to go online. Sometimes I spend more than 
four hours online. How about you?
A:  It depends. I’d say from half an hour to three hours.
B:	 What do you usually do online?
A:	 I listen to music, stream videos, or look up information. And you?
B:  Lots of things. I especially like to chat with my friends and family. By the way, what’s 
your favourite app?
A:	 Well, …
4    Look at Activity 3 again. How are the words in italics defined? Write them in the 
correct brackets.
When you hear a word you don’t know, 
pay attention to the next sentence 
or two to see if there is a definition. 
Definitions often begin with words 
like “it’s like”, “that is”, or “for example”.
Listen for definitions
A	 Use simpler words.	
(              )
	
                   
B	 Use an example.	
(              )
	
                   
C	 Compare to something.	
(              )
  UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
27

===== PAGE 35 =====
STRONGER TOGETHER: 
HOW WE HAVE BEEN CHANGED 
BY THE INTERNET
Much has been written about the wonders of the World Wide Web. There are countless 
articles telling us how the Internet has made our lives more convenient. We no longer have 
to wait in line or carry cash around when we go shopping. We can get the most updated 
information from large databases. We can download software, documents, and images 
whenever we need them. But the Internet has done much more for people than simply 
make life more convenient. People’s lives have been changed by online communities and 
social networks.
Jan Tchamani, an English teacher in Birmingham, UK, suddenly developed a serious 
illness and had to quit her job. At age 50, she found herself out of work and stuck at home 
with only her computer to keep her company. After a while, she discovered that surfing the 
Internet could help her feel less lonely and bored. She could listen to music, watch films, 
play games, and explore the world. She also joined an online group where she could talk 
about her problems and get support and advice from others. She realised that one of the 
greatest benefits of the Internet was its ability to remove the distance that usually exists 
between people.
She was so inspired by the people she met online that she decided to start an IT club 
to teach older people how to use computers and the Internet. She and her friends now 
organise events and collect money to pay for private teachers. Many people have been 
helped by the club. A 59-year-old man learnt how to apply for work online and found 
a great job. Now that he works and can take care of himself, his daughter has time to 
study at university. A 61-year-old woman who was living alone has started a small online 
company together with two friends. She no longer feels lonely, and her company has 
become quite successful.
Jan has started taking online classes to learn more about how to use the Internet to make 
society better. She believes that it is highly important to bridge the digital divide and make 
sure that everyone has access to the Internet and knows how to use new technology. Her 
next goal is to start a charity website to raise money for children in poor countries. 
Jan’s life has been greatly improved by the Internet. “When you go through tough times, 
you meet others who are facing similar challenges,” Jan says. “Thinking about other 
people’s situations inspired 
me to offer help.”
Start an online community
1	 Before you read, look at the title and discuss these questions in pairs.
1	 What do you think the text will say? 
2	 How do you think the writer feels about the topic? 
Headlines usually include only 
key ideas or information from 
the text. They often do not 
follow strict grammar rules, 
because writers use as few 
words as possible to catch the 
attention of the readers.
Read headlines
Reading and Thinking
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
28

===== PAGE 36 =====
5	 Discuss the questions below in pairs.
1	 Do you think your life has been changed by the Internet? If so, how?
2	 The writer mentions many advantages of using the Internet. Do you think there are any 
disadvantages? If so, what are they?
2	 Read the text and answer the questions.
1	 Why did Jan quit her job?
2	 How did the people in the online community help her?
3	 Why did she start the IT club?
4	 What is the “digital divide”?
5	 What’s Jan’s next goal?
6	 What can we learn from her experiences?
3    List the ways in which the text says that the Internet has changed people’s 
lives. Try to add more examples.
Examples from the text
More examples you know
access	
convenient	
surf	
inspire	
distance
network	
download	
cash	
update	
benefit 
The Internet has brought great 
 to Wuzhen, 
a small waterside town in Zhejiang Province. For the 
past few years, Wuzhen has hosted the World Internet 
Conference (WIC), which makes life in this ancient town 
much more 
 than it has been. Residents 
here can 
 online as easily as in large modern 
cities. Plus they can 
 movies and music at 
high speeds. The Internet has even changed Wuzhen’s 
transport! For short 
, both residents and tourists can use the public bike system. 
Bikes can be rented by using online apps—no need for paperwork or 
 payment. 
In 2016, the parking system for Wuzhen’s WIC centre was 
 to be fully Internet-based. 
Wuzhen’s entering the world of the Internet should 
 other small towns around the 
world. No matter how small a town is, everyone should be able to join the global 
 and 
 the world of the Internet! 
4	 Complete the passage about Wuzhen with the correct forms of the words in 
the box.
  UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
29

===== PAGE 37 =====
Talk about something that has been done
1	 Read the pairs of sentences. Underline and compare the different verb forms.
Discovering Useful Structures
Look at the way your face has been washed
Look at the way your teeth have been brushed
Look at the way your shoes have been cleaned
You’d better do them again.
Look at the way the flowers have been planted
Look at the way the grass has been cut
Look at the way the paths have been swept
I hope that you’ll come here again.
3	 Read the poem. Then think of your own situation and write a similar poem. 
	
Find out the differences in meaning and function between the active and 
passive forms.
2	 Change the sentences into the present perfect passive voice.
EXAMPLE
They’ve built a kind of new PC with more functions.→
A kind of new PC has been built with more functions.
1	 I have downloaded the software to help my phone battery last longer.  
2	 Someone has lost an identity card.
3	 Have you confirmed the Wi-Fi password?
4	 Have you pressed the button yet to copy the file?
5	 Has anyone made a comment about the online database? 
	
How do we form the present perfect passive voice? Fill in the blank.
Jan’s life has been greatly improved by the 
Internet.
Much has been written about the wonders 
of the World Wide Web. 
The Internet has greatly improved 
Jan’s life. 
People have written much about the 
wonders of the World Wide Web.
Verb form
Active	 	
have/has + v-ed
Passive	
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
30

===== PAGE 38 =====
Choose the best app
1	 Laura and Xiao Bo are talking about apps. Listen to their conversation and 
find out what apps they want.
Xiao Bo is looking for a(n) 
 app to help him get in shape. 
Laura would like an app for getting 
 and another that will make her 
 better.
Listening and Talking
4	 Look at the descriptions of some apps. Then role-play the conversation.  Which 
app do you think would be more popular or useful?
A:	 I imagine that TV Me would be 
more popular. Everyone watches TV 
and I think lots of people imagine 
themselves as actors in the TV 
shows, so putting the two together 
would be great. What do you think?
B:	 My guess would be Hear It First 
because it’s both interesting and 
useful. You could find out more 
about the stories you like and make 
sure that you don’t miss anything 
important. I believe both the young 
and old would like it.
This app keeps you updated on all your 
favourite topics. You can also choose to 
receive updates on the news or even lessons 
that you’re interested in. You get a message 
whenever there has been an update.
Hear It First
TV Me lets you stream your favourite TV 
programmes and see your face on the 
screen together with the actors.
TV Me
TV ME
2	 Listen again. Are the sentences true (T) or false (F)?
1	
  Both of Xiao Bo’s apps keep track of the steps he takes.
2	
  Xiao Bo’s second app can help him make a fitness plan.
3	
  Laura needs an app that will help her get discounts.
4	
  Laura needs an app that will add money to her bank account.
3	 Listen once more and tick the sentences you hear. Underline the words used to 
express predictions, guesses, and beliefs.
 It might help me walk more.
 My guess is that it wouldn’t work.
 I imagine this app would help me get fit faster.
 I suppose that would be good.
 I guess you could save a little with this app.
 I suppose there would be some problems, too.
 I believe this app could help me get thinner.
Predictions, guesses, and beliefs
  UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
31

===== PAGE 39 =====
HOME          PAGES          CATEGORIES          GALLERY          CONTACT
Search this blog
Write a blog post
1	 Read the blog post and answer the questions.
1	 What’s the main idea of the blog post? Write a title for it.
2	 What guidelines does the author provide for staying safe online?
3	 Who are the online troublemakers the blog post mentions?
4	 Do you have any more tips for how to surf the Internet safely? Share your ideas with a partner.
Reading for Writing
2	 Study the organisation and language features.
1	 Tick what the writer tells the reader in Paragraph 1.
     
 definition of online safety	
	
 the writer’s knowledge
     
 background information	
            
 the topic of the post	
	
Today I thought I’d blog about a question that has been asked many times—how do 
you stay safe online and avoid bad experiences on the Internet? I’m not an expert, but 
many years as a blogger have taught me a thing or two. 
First of all, there’s the golden rule of the Internet: If you see or read something that 
makes you feel uncomfortable, leave the site immediately. Don’t post comments or 
click on anything. Second, protect your privacy. Don’t give out your address or phone 
number. Someone might use the information to steal your identity. Identity theft is a 
common and serious problem. Third, be polite. Being online is no excuse for being 
rude, and you don’t want to become a target for a troll or cyberbully. A troll is a person 
who posts comments or questions in order to stir up trouble online. Trolls often use 
several false names so that they can stay on a site. A cyberbully uses the Internet to be 
mean to others. Like a troll, a cyberbully will also write something mean but it is usually 
directed at particular people. He or she may also post embarrassing photos and 
information about those people. However, the more polite you are, the less likely it is you 
will be attacked.
Have you had any bad experiences online, or do you have some good advice for staying 
safe? Post your comments below!
Last year, we were having problems in our chat room. Mean comments 
were being posted by someone we didn’t know. I think he or she was only 
trying to make trouble.
A girl at my school had a very bad experience online. A photo of her had 
been posted online and she was being made fun of. It seemed like a joke 
at first, but the girl was very upset.
Boy579
Amy
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
32

===== PAGE 40 =====
5	 Put up your revised draft in the classroom or read it to your class.
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to help your partner revise 
his/her draft.
	
  Does the writer tell the reader what he/she knows about the topic?
	
  Are the tips and suggestions well organised?
	
  Has the writer defined the new words?
	
  Does the author include examples, comparisons, or explanations?
	
  Does the writer end by asking readers to leave comments and/or suggestions?
	
  Can you find any grammar or spelling mistakes?
3	 Use what you have learnt to write a blog post about online safety.
1	 Choose one of the topics below and use the notes to draft your blog post.
Online shopping sites
Social networking apps
Online chat rooms
• Use a website you 
	 are familiar with.
• Use strong passwords.
• Don’t use public
	 computers.
• Don’t post personal
	 information.
• Don’t believe everything 
	 you read.
• Be polite.
• Don’t give out too 
	 much information.
• Never meet someone 	
	 you met online alone.
Body
Ending
Tell the reader what 
they should do or 
keep in mind.
Define new words 
or key terms.
End by asking 
the readers to 
write comments.
2	 Organise your draft.
Introduction
Tell the reader about 
yourself and what 
you know about 
the topic. 
2	 What words and phrases does the writer use to organise the information in the second 
paragraph?
3	 What new words are explained in the text, and how?
4	 How does the writer end the post?
  UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
33

===== PAGE 41 =====
1	 The words in the box can be used as both nouns and verbs. Fill in the blanks 
below with the correct forms of the words in the box.
1	 I have a 
 about environmental issues in my city.
	
I often 
 about how my classmates and I help to clean up the environment in my city.
2	 Grandma and I had a nice 
 about the Internet just now.
	
Grandma and I often 
 about the Internet.
3	 Visit our site today! We’re just a 
 away!
	
Visit our site today! Just 
 on this link.
4	 He made a positive 
 on the design of our school website, so I think he really liked it!
	
He 
 positively on the design of our school website, so I think he really liked it!
5	 This case has two 
. It’s my wallet and my mobile phone case.
	
This 
 both as my wallet and as my mobile phone case.
6	 People who behave foolishly online often become 
 of cyberbullies.
	
Cyberbullies often 
 people who behave foolishly online.  
function        target        blog        comment        click        chat
Assessing Your Progress
2	 The Internet is bringing great changes to modern life. Complete the text with 
the correct forms of the words in brackets. 
The world 
 (turn upside down) since the invention of the Internet and the 
introduction of personal computers into nearly every home. The twin inventions of the personal 
computer and the Internet 
 (consider) to be among the two most important 
events of the last century. Shopping 
 (completely change). Rather than going out 
to stores weekly or even daily, more and more people order things from clothes to toys to foods 
online and have them delivered directly to their homes. Social communication 
 
(take over) by the Internet. In the past, letters, phone calls, and face-to-face meetings were 
necessary to build up relationships, but now online communication is often the only social 
interaction that some people have all day! Games, music, movies and so on 
 
(heavily influence) by the Internet. New kinds of crimes are happening on the Internet, too, so 
cyber security has to be constantly updated.
Do you agree with the writer? Give your reasons.
  In this unit, I thought the section about 
    was the most useful because 
.
  I thought the part about 
    was not very useful because 
.
  My favourite part of the unit was  
    because  
.
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 very useful  
 a bit helpful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
34

===== PAGE 42 =====
*Project: Compare English learning websites/apps
Work in pairs. Use what you have learnt in this unit to compare different English learning 
websites/apps and present your findings to the class.
1	 What English learning websites and/or apps do you use? Choose one that 
you like best, and compare it with your partner’s. Use the questions below.
2	 Use the results to do one of the tasks.
1	 Prepare a short presentation to compare the websites or apps.
2	 Write a blog post comparing the websites or apps. 
Website/App name?
Who is it for? 
What is it for?
Who made it? (i.e. a big, 
famous company or a 
small, not-so-famous one)
Is it easy to read and easy 
to use?
Is it updated often?
Does it provide a list of 
sources to show where its 
information came from?
Is it full of ads?
Is the information clear 
and easy to understand?
Does it teach you all that 
you want to learn?
What do you like best 
about it?
Mine
Question
My partner’s
  UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
35

===== PAGE 43 =====
* Video Time
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
      Complete the sentences below with the expressions in the box.
selfies          social media profile          24/7
1	 Jill is concerned about having a good 
, so she always posts things that 
will make other people smile.
2	 Everyone was excited to see photos from Andy’s trip, but they were disappointed when 
they saw that he had only posted 
. 
3	 It seems that Nancy is online 
. She posts all the time, no matter what 
hour it is in the day or the night.
WHILE YOU WATCH
 
      1	 Choose the best answers according to the video.
1	 What is NOT a negative effect of using social media 24/7?
	
A  It can hurt your confidence in yourself.
	
B  It can hurt your ability to make friends in the real world.
	
C  It causes a lack of sleep, and that can harm your health.
2	 How is Blackburn College dealing with social media?
	
A  They make students turn off social media at certain times.
	
B  They have decided to forbid social media use.
	
C  They try to encourage students to use it responsibly.
      2	 Complete the quotes below with words you hear in the video.
	
1	 “… it’s very easy to become too invested in having to keep 
 and 
 pictures, and 
 to people online.”
	
2	 “They want to be online 
. And as that need 
, then we also 
saw that that had an impact on their 
.”
	
3	 “What we try to do here is to develop some self-regulation skills in young people so they 
understand when to 
, when to 
, …”
AFTER YOU WATCH
      Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 What are some of the benefits and dangers of social media use?
2	 What steps can you take to control your social media use?
Social Media and 
Teen Health
Blackburn College is in the city of Blackburn in 
the northwest of England. Some researchers are 
worried that students in England are spending too 
much time on social media.
UNIT 3 THE INTERNET 
36
