===== PAGE 44 =====
4
UNIT 
History and 
traditions
A people without the knowledge of their 
past history, origin and culture is like a tree 
without roots. 
—Marcus Garvey
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about the history and traditions of the UK.
2  listen to people talk about historic places and 
share your own experiences.
3  write about a place by describing different senses.
4  learn more about different tea cultures.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you know about the buildings in 
the photo above?
2  What traditions of that city/country do you 
know about?
3  Why is it important to protect historic 
buildings and cultural traditions?
37
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
Share views on historic sites
1	 Before you listen, look at some photos of Qufu. What can you say about these 
places?  
Temple of Confucius
Kong Family Mansion
Cemetery of Confucius
3 	 Listen again and decide whether these statements are true (T), false (F), or 
not mentioned (NM). Then answer the question. 
     1  Confucius said that learning without understanding leads to confusion.	
T
	 F
	NM
	
     2  Xiao Kong is doing a research project on Confucius philosophy.	
T
	 F
	NM
	
     3  As one of Confucius’ descendants, Xiao Kong’s name is recorded	
T
	 F
	NM
	
in the family tree.	
     4  Dacheng Hall is the tallest building in Qufu.	
T
	 F
	NM
	
	
  Why do you think William said his hometown was similar to Qufu?
	
A  There are famous halls in his hometown.
	
B  There are no tall buildings in his hometown.
	
C  Both places have a famous person who was born there. 
D  His hometown doesn’t allow other buildings to be more noticeable than the historic 
buildings.	
Listening and Speaking
2	 Listen to a conversation between a British tourist and a Chinese student in 
Qufu, and then write down what they say about Confucius.  
Name
Fact/Opinion about Confucius
William
1  Confucius is one of his favourite philosophers.
2
3
Xiao Kong
1
2
3
UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
38

===== PAGE 46 =====
5	 Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 What do you know about Confucius’ ideas on education? Think of two or three examples. 
What else do you know about Confucius and his philosophy?  
2  Think about a historic site that you have visited, and give an introduction to its history and 
importance. 
 
  2   Repeat the poem after the recording.
Pronunciation
	
1	 Read this part of the poem “If–” written by British poet Rudyard Kipling. 		
	
Notice the linking sounds. Then mark the linking sounds after the model.
If you can make one heap of all your winnings 
And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, 
And lose, and start again at your beginnings 
And never breathe a word about your loss; 
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew 
To serve your turn long after they are gone,   
And so hold on when there is nothing in you     
Except the Will which says to them: “Hold on!” 
4	 Write down the English idioms that are used in the conversation. Explain their 
meanings and think about some Chinese equivalents.
English idiom
Meaning
Chinese equivalent
Achilles’ heel
pull one’s leg
fish out of water
Understand idioms
An idiom is an expression which means something different from the meaning of the 
individual words. Some idioms present an idea or paint a picture that gives a hint as to the 
meaning. Other idioms can only be understood from the context in which they appear.
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
39

===== PAGE 47 =====
Learn about a country through its history 
1	 Before you read, discuss the questions in pairs.
Look at the map below. What does it show? What is it used for?
Reading and Thinking
2	 Read the text and answer the questions.
1	 What are the four countries of the United Kingdom? 
	
Which two were the first to be joined together?
2	 According to the text, what are two chief 
advantages of studying the history of a country?
The United Kingdom, Great Britain, Britain, 
England—many people are confused by what 
these different names mean. So what is the 
difference between them, if any? Getting to 
know a little bit about British history will help 
you solve this puzzle.
In the 16th century, the nearby country of Wales 
was joined to the Kingdom of England. Later, 
in the 18th century, the country Scotland was 
joined to create the Kingdom of Great Britain. 
In the 19th century, the Kingdom of Ireland was 
added to create the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland. Finally, in the 20th century, 
the southern part of Ireland broke away from 
the UK, which resulted in the full name we 
have today: the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland. Most people just use the 
shortened name: “the United Kingdom” or “the 
UK”. People from the UK are called “British”, 
which means the UK is also often referred to as 
Britain or Great Britain.
The four countries that belong to the United Kingdom work together in some areas. They 
use the same flag, known as the Union Jack, as well as share the same currency and 
military defence. However, they also have some differences. For example, England, Wales, 
Scotland, and Northern Ireland all have different education systems and legal systems. 
They also have their own traditions, like their own national days and national dishes. And 
they even have their own football teams for competitions like the World Cup! 
The United Kingdom has a long and interesting history to explore, which can help you 
understand much more about the country and its traditions. Almost everywhere you go in 
the UK, you will be surrounded by evidence of four different groups of people who took 
over at different times throughout history. The first group, the Romans, came in the first 
century. Some of their great achievements included building towns and roads. Next, the 
Anglo-Saxons arrived in the fifth century. They introduced the beginnings of the English 
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
When you look at a map, think first 
about what the map shows and what 
the symbols mean.
Read a map
UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
40

===== PAGE 48 =====
5   Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 Why is it important to study the history and culture of a country before visiting it?
2	 What important things should visitors know about before they come to China?
4	 Complete the conversation about the UK using the phrases in their correct forms.
A:	 I can never remember what the UK means! There’s England, Britain, 
 Great 
Britain!
B:	 Well, it helps if you remember that there are four countries that 
 the UK. 
That’s why it’s called the United Kingdom.
A:	 Four countries? I must have been asleep in that part of our history class! So the first 
country was England, and the others were 
 that?
B:	 Yes, right. First England, then Wales, then Scotland. The last country was Ireland, but later 
the southern half didn’t want to be 
 the United Kingdom.
A:	 Oh, I remember now! The southern part 
 from Northern Ireland, right?
B:	 Yes, you got it well remembered! But 
 in history class next time!
as well as     belong to     add to      join to     break away    keep your eyes open
3	 Read again and sort out the information according to the timeline.
                           Romans arrived 	
                           Anglo-Saxons came	
                           Vikings came	
11th century                          
	
16th century                          
                       
18th century                          
                       
19th century                          
                       
20th century                          
                       
 
When? 
What happened?
What changed?
language, and changed the way people built houses. The Vikings came in the eighth 
century, left behind lots of new vocabulary, and also the names of many locations across 
the UK. The last group were the Normans. They conquered England after the well-known 
Battle of Hastings in the 11th century. They had castles built all around England, and 
made changes to the legal system. The Normans were French, so many French words 
slowly entered into the English language.
There is so much more to learn about the interesting history and culture of the United 
Kingdom. Studying the history of the country will make your visit much more enjoyable. The 
capital city London is a great place to start, as it is an ancient port city that has a history 
dating all the way back to Roman times. There are countless historic sites to explore, and 
lots of museums with ancient relics from all over the UK. The UK is a fascinating mix of 
history and modern culture, with both new and old traditions. If you keep your eyes open, 
you will be surprised to find that you can see both its past and its present. 
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
41

===== PAGE 49 =====
Express feelings and describe situations
1	 Look at the sentences and underline the past participles. In pairs, discuss their 
functions. Then find more sentences with the -ed form in the text.
1	 Most people just use the shortened name: “the United Kingdom” or “the UK”.
2	 They use the same flag, known as the Union Jack, …   
3	 They had castles built all around England, …
	
When the past participle is used as the object complement, it is often formed 
with the “have/get/feel/find/… + object + -ed form”.
Discovering Useful Structures
3	 Read the sentences and underline the -ed form as the object complement.
1	 Judy and I had our car parked in an underground car park near Trafalgar Square, where we 
could get our car battery charged.
2	 When we finally reached the service desk to ask for audio guides, we heard it announced 
that there were no audio guides left.
3	 We found ourselves very surprised by the large number of visitors and the amount of noise 
at the entrance of the National Gallery.
4	 Judy had her eyes fixed on Van Gogh’s Sunflowers. It was hard to approach the painting 
as there were so many people around.
5	 She had a copy of the painting boxed to ensure that it was delivered safely.
4	 Rewrite the sentences with past participles as the attribute, and then see 
whether you can write a little story with them.
1	 Loch Ness was surrounded by beautiful natural landscape, which made it look amazing.
2	 Carl and his friends stayed with a generous family who offered them bread with butter and 
honey that was homemade.
3	 The family’s ancestors once attended to soldiers who were wounded in the First World War.
4	 The young people were attracted by the legend of Loch Ness. They watched over the lake 
with their cameras and binoculars, which were positioned on the hill.
Past Participles as the Attribute (1)
Past Participles as the Attribute (2)
tired visitors
a well-organised trip 
beautifully dressed stars
visitors 
 of the long wait/…
a trip 
 well by my workplace/…
stars 
 beautifully at the event/…
2	 Complete the phrases in the right column by using the past participles in 
the left column. Compare the meaning of each pair of phrases. Then make 
sentences with the phrases.
42

===== PAGE 50 =====
Talk about a visit to a historic tourist destination
1	 Backpacker Paul is talking to a receptionist at an international youth hostel 
in Pingyao, China. Listen to the conversation and tick the places mentioned. 
 Ming-Qing Street	
 Ancient Government Office	
 Qiao Family Courtyard  
 Wang Family Courtyard	
 Rishengchang Bank	
 Mount Mian  
 the city wall	
 Zhenguo Temple	
 Shuanglin Temple  
2	 Listen once more. Complete the sentences to describe how the speakers felt.
Listening and Talking
4	 Take turns telling each other about a historic place that you have been to.
3	 Imagine one of you has just visited Pingyao. Work in pairs and role-play the 
conversation below. Then continue the conversation using the expressions in 
the box.
A:	 Wow, I’ve just come back from Pingyao. It was amazing!
B: 	Oh, I loved Pingyao! So did you see the Ming-Qing Street?
A:	 Of course, but I didn’t expect to see so many tourists.
B: 	Yeah, I know what you mean, but there are some great snacks there. How about 
the ...?
EXAMPLE
Expressing excitement, surprise, and disappointment
I had no idea …  	
I didn’t know …	
I was eager/surprised	to see/learn/hear that …
It was so much fun!	
It was a little disappointing.
It wasn’t as good/interesting/fun as I’d expected.
I had expected something different.
Paul sounded 
                               
It was like walking into history.
Paul sounded 
     
It wasn’t as big as I had expected. 
Paul sounded 
       
Some of the snacks there are amazing.
Xiao Yan sounded 
  
I had no idea there would be so many tourists.
Paul sounded 
    
Wow, I can’t believe you didn’t see the wall.
Xiao Yan sounded 
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
43
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 

===== PAGE 51 =====
Describe a place that you like
2	 Analyse the descriptive paragraph.
1	 Identify and underline the paragraph’s introductory sentence(s) and the ending sentence(s).
2	 The paragraph talks about different senses in different places. Write the senses and places 
in the order that they appear.
1	 Read the text and discuss the questions in pairs.
1	 What makes the Irish countryside exciting and inspiring? 
2	 What are the best ways to experience some Irish traditions and culture? 
3	 What is the meaning of “breathe in the sweet scent of fresh flowers while birds greet the 
new day with their morning song”?  
4	 What are the best ways to experience Chinese traditions and customs?
Senses:	
1 
	
	
2 
	
	
3 
	
	
4 
Places:	
1 
	
	
2 
	
	
3 
	
	
4 
3	 What words does the writer use to describe sensory details?
 sight                   smell                   taste                   hearing                   touch	  
Reading for Writing
Ireland’s beautiful countryside has always had a great influence on its people and 
traditions. The country has a long history of producing great writers and poets. Its 
beautiful countryside excites and inspires all, offering something for each of the senses. 
The peaceful landscape of the “Emerald Isle” and its many green counties is a true feast 
for the eyes, with its rolling green hills dotted with sheep and cattle. And down by the sea, 
the roar of the ocean waves and cries of the seabirds make up the music of the coast. 
On a quiet morning in the mountains, feel the sun on your skin, and breathe in the sweet 
scent of fresh flowers while birds greet the new day with their morning song. With all this 
beauty, it is not surprising that Ireland has developed strong traditions that include music, 
dancing, and dining. To have a chance of experiencing this, stop by a village pub and relax 
with a glass of wine or a local beer. Better yet, enjoy a delicious traditional Irish Beef Stew. 
If you’re lucky, you might be able to enjoy some traditional music and dancing, too. And 
if you introduce yourself to a friendly face, you are more than likely to experience local 
culture and customs first-hand. 
BEAUTIFUL IRELAND 
AND ITS TRADITIONS
UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
44

===== PAGE 52 =====
3	 Use what you have learnt in this unit to describe an interesting, exciting, or 
surprising place.
1	 Work in pairs. Choose one of your favourite places and tell a partner why you think it is 
interesting, exciting, or surprising.
2	 Use the questions below to describe the place you have chosen.
               What can you see?	
  What can you hear?
               How does the place feel?                What can you smell?
                 What can you taste there?	
  What does the place make you think or feel?
3	 Use your answers to draft a passage about the place.
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. 
1	 Use the checklist to help you evaluate his/her draft.
	
  Does the writer start with an image, quote, or question?
	
  Is the description well-organised and easy to read?
	
  Has the writer included sensory details? 
	
  Does the writer use specific words and give examples?
	
  Is the ending effective?
	
  Can you find any grammar or spelling mistakes?
2   Give your comments to your partner and ask him/her to revise the draft.
5	 Put up your passage in the classroom or make a class book about your 
favourite places.
Introduction
Body
Ending
Make the reader eager to read 
your writing
A striking image
Something surprising
A quote or question
Transitions
Help the reader follow  
your ideas
Details and examples
Use sensory details
Do not use general words    
Give examples
Let the reader know that the 
passage ends
Help the reader remember your 
writing
In my village, every day starts 
with a “fire”! The houses turn 
red as the sun rises above the 
mountains.
In the morning/afternoon/evening
First, second, etc.   
In the north …  In the east …
What can you see, hear, smell, etc.?
I learnt a lot. → What did you learn?
There were many things… → What? 
Some people… → Who?
At night, the stars come out to tell 
us that all is well and my village 
grows quiet. For now we’ll sleep, 
and tomorrow the sun will set us 
on fire again for a new day!
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
45

===== PAGE 53 =====
2	 Combine each pair of sentences into one using the past participle of the verb 
in the second sentence.
1	 I heard the trip was to visit our sister school in Boston. That excited me.
	
2	 I heard you had been chosen to join a cultural camp in Greece. That pleased me.
	
3	 Dave could not find a seat in the room. It was very crowded.
	
4	 The photo won the first prize in the competition. It was taken at Cardiff Castle.
	
5	 On the lab table, he found a lot of bottles. They were marked “caution”.
	
Assessing Your Progress
1	 Combine the words with the endings to form words that you learnt in this unit. 
Then use them to complete the sentences below.
1	 Professor Grange made several 
 to the relationship between the two countries, and 
gave a lot of background information to explain the 
 situation they are facing.
2	 For your homework this week, please do some research on the major 
 of Isaac 
Newton and give a full 
 of one of these in class.
3	 After the war, the 
 was left in ruins, with all of its 
 completely 
destroyed.
4	 That Shanghai restaurant has three different 
, so if you let me know where your 
hotel is, I’ll give you 
 directions to the closest one.
Words
achieve        locate	
king
defend         negate	
specify
describe      refer  
-ce             -ive	
-ic
-dom         -ment
-ence         -tion	
Endings
  Do you think the idioms you learnt are useful to know? Why or why not? 
     
  How would you explain why there are many different names for the UK 
    to someone else? 
  Why is describing different senses useful when you write a text?  
    
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
46

===== PAGE 54 =====
*Project: Introduce the traditions of a country/city/village
1	 Work in groups. Choose a country/city/village and prepare a presentation 
using a poster. Consider these traditions:
 •  festivals
 •  food and drink
 •  dances, music, or art
 •  clothing/items
 •  activities
 •  ...
You should include: 
 •  a poster with photos or drawings 
showing the traditions
 •  a demonstration—like a dance, 
song, object, or local food/drink
 •  ...
2	 Divide the work among your group 
members. Some of you should 
research traditions, providing 
photos and detailed descriptions. 
The others can create the poster. 
Decide on the roles each of you 
will play in the presentation.
3	 Present your poster to the class. Try to answer any questions asked. You may 
take the poster about Mexican traditions as an example.
5	 Find out the winners and put up your posters in the classroom.
4	 As a group, record and evaluate the other groups’ presentations by filling in 
the form below.
Information
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3
Group 4
Group ...
Place
Tradition 1
Tradition 2
Tradition 3
Demonstration
Rating (%)
MEXICAN
TRADITIONS
DAY OF THE DEAD 
FESTIVAL
TRADITIONAL 
CLOTHING
CELEBRATION PINATA
MARIACHI GUITAR 
MUSICIANS
MEXICAN HAT DANCE
TACO—CORN 
PANCAKE
  UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
47

===== PAGE 55 =====
WHILE YOU WATCH
1	 Complete the sentences below by writing 1–7 on the lines.
	
1  The Tower Bridge	
	 A	 is a symbol of the city of London.
	
2  Westminster Abbey	
	 B	is also called the Palace of Westminster.
	
3  Buckingham Palace	
	 C	is where the king or queen lives.
	
4  The National Gallery	
	 D	is where all royal funerals and most coronations 
take place.
	
5  Trafalgar Square	
	 E	 is in fact the name of the bell in the tower.
	
6  The Houses of Parliament	
	 F	 is a traditional place for public meetings.
	
7  Big Ben	
	 G	contains a great art collection.
2 	 Answer the questions using information from the video.
	
What did Samuel Johnson say about London? What makes London a great city to walk in?
AFTER  YOU WATCH
      Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 What historic places in London would you like to visit? Why? 
2	 What historic places in your local city would visitors probably like to see most? What could 
you tell visitors about those places and the traditions of your local city? 
An Introduction to 
Historic London
London sits upon the River Thames in the 
southeast of England. It is the capital of 
the United Kingdom, and—with almost 
nine million people—Europe’s largest city.
BEFORE YOU WATCH
      Match the place names below with the photos from the video.
A  Big Ben	
B  Buckingham Palace	
C  Houses of Parliament	
D  Tower of London
E  National Gallery	
F  Trafalgar Square	
G  Tower Bridge	
H  Westminster Abbey
* Video Time
UNIT 4 HISTORY AND TRADITIONS 
48
