===== PAGE 56 =====
MUSIC
Music is the universal language 
of mankind. 
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about the virtual choir.
2  listen to people talk about their music preferences, 
    and share your own.
3  write a speech about how music has helped you or 
    someone you know.
4  learn about musical scores in films.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you think the performers are 
    doing on the stage?
2  What can you say about the place where
    they are giving the performance?
49
5
UNIT 
49

===== PAGE 57 =====
Talk about music preferences 
1	 Before you listen, discuss the question in groups. 
What are the people doing in the pictures below?
2	 Match the pictures with the correct types of music.
Listening and Speaking
3	 A reporter from the school newspaper is interviewing students about music. 
Listen to the interviews. Draw lines between the words to make complete 
sentences. Some words will not be used.
1	 The first student likes to
2	 The second student likes to
3	 The third student likes to
Chinese traditional songs.
classical music.
hip-hop music. 
country music.
dance to 
listen to
play 
sing
4	 The reporter paraphrased some of the answers the students gave him. Listen 
to the interviews again and complete the sentences with the words you hear. 
When you want to explain 
something difficult to somebody, it 
is helpful to use easier words with 
the same meaning. This will help 
you make it easier to understand.
Paraphrase
1	 A: Country music touches my heart.
	
B: So you like music that’s 
 of 
?
2	 A: When I listen to hip-hop, I just have to move!
	
B: So it makes you want to 
?
3	 A: Classical music makes me feel like I’m sitting beside a         
          quiet stream and enjoying nature.
	
B: So to you, it’s 
 and 
?
Listening and Speaking
1
3
2
4
1 
2
3
4   
A   Chinese traditional	      B  classical          C  country music           D  hip-hop
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
50

===== PAGE 58 =====
EXAMPLE
A:	 What kind of music do you like?
B:	 I like techno music.
A:	 What makes it so special to you?
B:	 I like to listen to it when I exercise. 
It gives me energy.
Bagpipes
wind instrument
Pipa
stringed instrument
6	 Talk in pairs. Interview each other about music. Use the pictures below for 
ideas.
5	 Discuss these questions with your classmates.
1	 Do these types of music make you feel the same as the students? Why or why not?
2	 What type of music do you not like, and how does it make you feel?
Reasons for liking music
touches my heart/soul
makes me happy/want to dance
gives me energy/hope
helps me exercise/study
sounds peaceful/beautiful
reminds me of home/people I love
  
Pronunciation
	
1	 Read the lyrics below from “Blowin' in the Wind” by Bob Dylan. Notice how 	
	
the plosives are pronounced.
How many roads must a man wal(k) down
Before you call him a man?
How many seas must a whi(te) dove sail
Before she sleeps in the sand?
Yes, and how many times mus(t) the cannon balls fly
Before they’re forever banned?
The answer, my friend, is blowin’ in the wind
The answer is blowin’ in the wind.
Yes, and how many years can a mountain exist
Before it’s wash(ed) to the sea?
Yes, and how many years can some people exist
Before they’re allow(ed) to be free?
Yes, and how many times can a man turn his head
Pretending he jus(t) doesn’(t) see?
The answer, my friend, is blowin’ in the wind
The answer is blowin’ in the wind.
  2	 Repeat after the recording.
  UNIT 5 MUSIC 
51

===== PAGE 59 =====
Reading and Thinking
Learn about experiencing music online
1	 Before you read, discuss the question in groups.
How can computers and the Internet help us experience music differently?
Imagine having the opportunity to sing together with hundreds of other people while you are at 
home alone. You can do this in a virtual choir. Virtual choir members record themselves while 
they perform alone on video. These videos are uploaded onto the Internet, and then they are put 
together into one video that you can see online—a virtual choir. Anyone can take part in a virtual 
choir from anywhere—all you need is a video camera and an Internet connection. You do not 
even need a studio. A virtual choir helps connect ordinary people together. Many people do not 
have close friends or contacts who have the same interest in music. Many others do not have the 
chance to join a local choir. A virtual choir enables them to add their voices to those of other 
individuals and become part of the global community. It has proved to be a positive influence 
on the lives of many people. As one virtual choir member said, “Music helps me to … forget my 
problems. With music, I become someone else.”
The virtual choir was the idea of award-winning composer and conductor Eric Whitacre. Born in 
the USA on 2 January 1970, Whitacre began studying music at the University of Nevada in 1988. 
He fell in love with Mozart’s classical music when he sang for the university choir. Moved by this 
music, he said, “It was like seeing color for the first time.” He graduated from university in 1995, 
and then received a master’s degree in musical composition from the Juilliard School in New York 
in 1997. Over the next 10 years, Whitacre’s original compositions began to become quite popular 
among choirs and singers. This led to the creation of the virtual choir. 
In 2009, Whitacre received a video of a girl who was singing one of his works. Inspired, he asked 
his fans to make videos, which he then joined together into one performance. His first virtual 
choir, “Lux Aurumque”, had 185 singers from 12 different countries. It has received millions 
of views on the Internet. Since then, the virtual choir has become a worldwide phenomenon. 
Whitacre’s next effort was the Virtual Youth 
Choir for UNICEF, which was first seen on 
stage on 23 July 2014 in the UK. Altogether, 
2,292 young people from 80 countries joined 
in to sing Whitacre’s song “What If”.
The virtual choir is a wonderful way for people 
around the world to sing with one voice and 
thus make the world a better place.
T H E  V I R T UA L  C H O I R 
1	 The man who came up with the idea for a virtual choir.
2	 The place where he studied musical composition. 
3	 The name of his song. 
2    Scan and circle the information in the text.
Scan a text to find important 
information such as dates, 
numbers, and names.
Scan
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
52

===== PAGE 60 =====
3    Read the text again and answer the questions.
1	 How is a virtual choir different from other choirs? Who can take part in it? 
2	 What caused Eric Whitacre to fall in love with classical music? What gave him the 
inspiration to make his first virtual choir?
6	 Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 What are the advantages and disadvantages of being a member of a virtual choir? 
2	 Does a virtual choir really bring people together? Why or why not?
Eric Whitacre was born.
Whitacre attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
Whitacre got a master’s degree from the Juilliard School in New York.
Whitacre first got the idea for the virtual choir. His first virtual choir used 
 singers from 
 different countries; received  
 views on the Internet.
Whitacre formed the Virtual Youth Choir for UNICEF. 
 young 
people from 
 countries sang “What If”.
2 January 19
	
19
–1995	
19
	
2009
 July 2014
4	 Find the numbers and dates to fill in the timeline.
5	 Learn more about music by completing the sentences with the correct forms of 
the words and phrase. Then make a mind map about what music means to you.
ordinary	
remind	
perform	 award	
effort	
individual	
fall in love
enable	
stage	
studio	
original	
prove	
onto	
opportunity
1	 Last night I went to see my friend’s new rock band 
 on 
 at a 
small local music festival.
2	 This new pop song 
 me of an old song that was 
 sung by Billy 
White but later made popular by another singer.
3	 I’m so happy! My favourite singer just won a music 
. This 
 that 
all the 
 she put into her work was worth it.
4	 I 
 with rap music when I was a teenager. Listening to it 
 me 
to relax and forget about my problems.
5	 Five years ago, he was finally given a(n) 
 to record his song at a(n) 
. Ever since, his success has shown the world that even 
 
people can become famous.
6	 Nowadays millions of musical performances are uploaded 
 the Internet every 
day by different 
 who may or may not be professional musicians or singers.
  UNIT 5 MUSIC 
53

===== PAGE 61 =====
1	 Look at the following sentences and underline the past participles. Find more 
of them in the text. In pairs, discuss their functions.
1	 Born in the USA on 2 January 1970, Whitacre began studying music at the University of 
Nevada in 1988.
2	 Moved by this music, he said, “It was like seeing color for the first time.”
Express feelings and describe situations
Discovering Useful Structures
3	 Match the sentence halves and rewrite each sentence beginning with a past 
participle.
1	 The room had been painted in dark colours
2	 Dave was unemployed
3	 The girl was moved by his romantic words 
4	 He was corrected by his teacher from time 
to time
5	 The album was recorded in a new way
6	 He was invited to perform on the stage
A	 so he had time to consider what job 
he really wanted.
B	 so he felt nervous and excited.
C	 so it was expected to be popular 
with techno fans.
D	 so she accepted his gift.
E	 so it needed some bright lights.
F	 so he lost interest in singing.
2	 Rewrite the story using past participles as the adverbial.
EXAMPLE    
The Silver Hall is usually used for singing performances and is full of cheers and energy.→ 
Usually used for singing performances, the Silver Hall is full of cheers and energy.
1	 Henry was highly interested in music and began to write original compositions when he 
was in high school.
2	 They were pleased with his music and songs and finally invited him to perform in the Silver Hall.
3	 Though he was affected by gradual blindness soon after the performance, Henry was still 
capable of writing compositions and he found that creating music was a relief and cure 
for his illness.
4	 When he got absorbed in his world of music, he felt as if he could “see” the beauty of the 
world around him, like he had in his previous life.
	
Find out the differences in meaning and function between the newly written 
sentences and the original ones. 
4	 Complete the passage with the words in brackets in their correct forms.	
Well known as a successful band, the Impact members show quite a few striking qualities. They 
never ever give up. When 
 (question) by the media, they are not 
 
(discourage) and practise even harder. They are improving themselves by attending several 
master training classes. They are united. 
 (fill with) team spirit, they act as a 
whole, always aiming for glory. 
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
54

===== PAGE 62 =====
Plan a music festival
Listening and Talking
3    Work in groups. Role-play the conversation or make a new one.
Debbie:	 Where have you been? You missed the announcement about the music festival.
John:	
I was at the doctor’s office. Music festival? 
Frank:	
Yes, it’s going to be next month on the school sports field. John, you can play the 
piano. How about playing it at the festival?
John:	
Well, I’d rather play the violin. I can play Liang Zhu.
Frank:	
Wow! Sounds good. What about you, Debbie?
Debbie:	 Actually, I don’t have much musical ability. I’d prefer just to help out with the crowds.
Frank:	
You can sell tickets or work at a food stand.
John:	
So can I assume that the aim of the festival is to raise money?
Debbie:	 Yes. All of the money will go to charity.
John:	
Well, if it’s for a good cause, everyone should take part!
4	 In pairs, talk about what you would do at the music festival. 
1	 Would you like to sing or play a musical instrument? How else could you help in addition 
to what has already been mentioned?
2	 Whom would you invite? What other activities could you do at the music festival?
2	 Listen to the announcement again and 
answer the questions.
1	 What kind of songs will Grace Davis sing 
at the festival?
2	 Who can try out as a performer?
3	 What can those who think they do not 
have musical talent do?
4	 How can students volunteer to take part?
Talking about preferences
Would you prefer doing …?
What would you prefer to do?
Would you rather do … or …?
What would you rather do?
I’d prefer … to …
I’d rather have … than … 
1	 Listen to an announcement about a school music festival. Tick the kinds of 
volunteers the festival needs.
	
    people to give music lessons 
Ъ            
	
    choir members
Ъ    
    people to run food stands Ъ
	
    people to sell festival tickets 
Ъ   
    people to sell music CDs  Ъ
	
    people to set up equipment
Ъ    
    musical performers
  UNIT 5 MUSIC 
55

===== PAGE 63 =====
Write a speech
1	 Read the speech below and answer the questions.
1	 What was Sarah’s problem?
2	 How did music help her during her difficult time?
3	 What is her advice to others?
Reading for Writing 
2	 Study the language features.
1	 Match the names of rhetorical devices to the lettered sentences in the speech. 
	
metaphor	
	
personification	
	
	
quote	
	
repetition	
	
	
rhetorical question   
A
	
simile	
2	 What expressions does Sarah use to talk about how music can make us feel? Circle 
the phrases in the speech.
Good morning! My name is Sarah 
Williams. It’s an honour to be here and 
to share with you the story of how music 
has had an impact on my life.
(A) Have you ever faced a time when 
things looked dark and you had no 
hope at all? Two years ago, I was told 
I had a serious disease which was 
difficult to cure. My body ached all the 
time and thus I thought I didn’t have 
much longer to live. I was very afraid and I felt so alone and discouraged. Then one 
day, I had to go through a two-hour medical treatment. The doctor wanted me to relax, 
so he had me listen to some music, and one of the songs was “Happy”. The song 
made me feel so much better that from then on I began to listen to music all the time. (B) 
John A. Logan said, “Music is the medicine of the mind.” And it’s true. Music helped me 
recover.
(C) Music gave me happiness. When I listened to music, (D) it made my spirits fly like a 
kite in the wind. (C) Music gave me strength and brought me relief. (E) It was the rock I 
leant on to become strong and to get through those hard times. Moreover, (C) music 
gave me hope and a sense of satisfaction. (F) It became my best friend. It spoke 
words of encouragement to the deepest part of my being.
Of course, I hope none of you have to go through the same kind of suffering that I 
did. At the same time, we all go through various periods when we feel sad or alone. 
During those times, music can help you in the same way that it helped me. I hope all 
of you will somehow begin to treasure music and make it a part of your life.
Thank you!
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
56

===== PAGE 64 =====
3     Use what you have learnt to write a speech about how music can change a 
person’s life.
1	 Work in groups. Think of ways that people experience music, and how music can help people.
2	 Now think about your experience with music and how it has changed your life, or think 
about how the life of someone you know has been changed by his/her experience with 
music.
3	
Ways people experience music
How music can help people
singing,
give encouragement, 
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use this checklist to help you revise the draft.
 Does the writer explain how music has changed his/her/someone else’s life?
 Are some of the rhetorical devices included and used properly?
 Does the writer talk about how music makes him/her/someone feel?
 Is the first word in each sentence capitalised?
 Does the writer use correct punctuation? 
5	 Put up your speech in the classroom or deliver it to your class.
	
Fill in the blanks below with some of the rhetorical devices you hope to use in your speech.
     •   Metaphor: 
     •   Personification: 
     •   Quote: 
 said, “
”
     •   Repetition: Music makes/gives/helps me/him/her … 
1 
   2 
  3 
     •   Rhetorical question: Have you ever 
?
     •   Simile (verb + like): 
Hello, my name is 
, and I’m here to talk about 
. 
 years ago, 
. 
•   Write about how music made you/him/her feel.
•   Relate your/his/her experience to the audience.
•   Close the speech.
•   Introduce yourself.
•   Give the topic of your speech.
•   Write about your experience with music, 
     or the experience of someone you know.
	
Complete the outline and use it along with rhetorical devices to draft your speech.
  UNIT 5 MUSIC 
57

===== PAGE 65 =====
1	 Complete each sentence with a word or phrase from the box.
1	 Rachel is listening to 
 music to help her concentrate on her studying.
2	 Sad love songs often touch the 
 of those who listen to them.
3	 Tony is 
 a band that is looking for a guitar player.
4	 This new variety of music is a 
 that is spreading around the world.
5	 The 
 of this music festival is to bring people of different cultures together.
6	 The CD my dad gave me for my birthday contains 
 styles of music.
7	 Jazz music had a big 
 on his life because it was the only thing he listened to 
while growing up.
8	 She 
 learnt how to play the piano on her own when she was very young.
aim   impact   peaceful   phenomenon   somehow   souls   trying out (for)   various 
2	 Read the story and underline the past participles.
Work in pairs and reflect on the functions of the past participles. What do you think of 
the girl’s experience in learning music?
I never thought I was very talented at anything 
to do with music, but my parents wanted me 
to learn to play the piano at the age of six. 
To be a good daughter, I agreed to learn 
even though I wasn’t interested in it at all. 
Experienced in reading her students’ minds, 
my piano teacher could tell after a couple of 
lessons that my heart was not in it. However, 
after learning for about six months, I was 
asked to perform something at the year-end 
concert arranged by my teacher. Surprised 
and terrified at the same time, I could only 
agree. Given my inexperience, I chose a fairly 
simple composition. In order to perform well, 
I practised the same composition for an hour 
a day for the next two months. On the day of 
the concert, I was so nervous that I woke up 
with butterflies in my stomach. As it turned out, 
there was no need to be nervous because all 
my hard work paid off and I played perfectly. 
Encouraged by this first performance and 
the positive reaction of the audience, I have 
continued to play the piano and enjoy it more 
every day.
Assessing Your Progress
  What new music types did you learn in this unit?
    
  What useful vocabulary or structures did you learn in this unit?
    
  Could you talk with your friends about music, musicians, and/or their influence on  
	  your life after doing this unit?
   
  What aspect of music would you like to learn more about, and why?
   
  Overall, I thought this unit was   
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
58

===== PAGE 66 =====
In this project, you are going to make a presentation using a poster or presentation file 
about one of these topics:
1	 In groups, discuss these questions.
1	 What will be the topic of your presentation?
2	 What information do you need to collect? Where can you find this information?
3	 What tasks will need to be done so that you can complete this project? 
	
(research, writing, making the poster, artwork, etc.)
4	 Who in the group will do each of the tasks?
  a musical composition    	
    a musical play or film              a musical instrument                 
  a musical artist (singer, composer, etc.)                     a concert/a musical performance
2	 Now prepare your presentation, and the poster or presentation file to go with 
it.  Refer to the biography below for main points to include.
3    Now give your presentation to the class. Each member should take turns to 
explain or show one part of the presentation.
4    After listening to the presentations, decide on the best ones and give tips for 
improving them.
Ludwig van Beethoven 
Ludwig van Beethoven (1770–1827) was born in Germany. 
He started his musical training when he was five years old, 
and his teachers worked him so hard that he often cried. 
He started writing music when he was nineteen, and two 
years later he moved to Vienna to study music and perform. 
Beethoven first became famous as a pianist. However, 
by 1800, his musical works were so popular that he was 
thought of by many as the most important composer of 
his generation. During this same period, he slowly became 
deaf. Even though he could not hear with his ears, he could 
still write music because he could hear music in his head. 
Most of his greatest musical works were completed after he 
became deaf. In the later part of his life, he had many health 
and money issues. He was also lonely because the woman 
he loved and wanted to marry had left him. His friends tried to 
help him through his dark times, but his life became marked 
by sadness. He died after a long illness in 1827.
*Project: Explore interesting aspects about music
     
Symphony No. 3 (Eroica)    《英雄交响曲》
Symphony No. 5 (Fate)   《命运交响曲》
Symphony No. 6 (Pastoral)   《田园交响曲》
Symphony No. 9 (The Choral, Ode to Joy)  《欢乐颂》
Violin Sonata No. 9 (Kreutzer)   《克莱采奏鸣曲》
Piano Sonata No. 14 (Moonlight)  《月光奏鸣曲》
Piano Sonata No. 8 (Pathétique)  《悲怆奏鸣曲》
Bagatelle No. 25 (Für Elise)  《致爱丽丝》
   Famous works
  UNIT 5 MUSIC 
59

===== PAGE 67 =====
* Video Time
WHILE YOU WATCH
 
      1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
      2	 Read the statements and decide whether they are true (T) or false (F).
	
1  WOMAD stands for “world of music, arts, and dance”.	
T
F
	
2  Marcello Collasurdo is the co-founder of WOMAD.	
T
F
	
3  Marcello is from Spaccanapoli. 	
T
F
	
4  There are eight different instruments used in Marcello’s band. 	
T
F
    
	
5  Marcello’s father taught him to dance the tamurriata when he was young. 	
T
F
	
6  The streets of Naples are like a stage to Marcello.	
T
F
AFTER  YOU WATCH
      Discuss the questions in groups.
1	 Would you like to go to the WOMAD festival? Why or why not?
2	 Why is it important to celebrate music, arts, and world cultures?
World Music
WOMAD is an international festival that 
celebrates world music, arts, and dance. 
It is held in different places around the 
world, including the UK.
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
    	 Complete the sentences with the words in the box.
1	 A singer-songwriter 
 WOMAD in the 1980s.
2	
 from all over the world come to perform at WOMAD.
3	 All the different 
 celebrate world music and cultures.
4	 The band’s music is inspired by 
 and the music of two kinds of 
traditional Italian dances. 
5	 The band’s music was 
 and people at the festival enjoyed it a lot.
bands      performances      folk rock      co-founded      stunning 
UNIT 5 MUSIC 
60
