UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
What I hide by my language, 
my body utters.  
—Roland Barthes
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about the function of body language 
	 and its implications in different cultures.
2  hear and talk about how people use and 
understand body language.
3  describe how people use body language to 
express meaning.
4  appreciate the art of non-verbal humour.
    Look and discuss
1  What might the people be doing in the 
photos?
2  What do you think they might be feeling?
3  When and how do you use body 
language to convey meanings?
BODY 
LANGUAGE
UNIT 4
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
Understand body language
Reading and Thinking
1	 Choose five sentences and act them out without speaking. Can your partner 
guess what you are trying to communicate?
2	 Read the text and fill in the table on page 39.
Hello!	
Goodbye!	
Come here!	
Go away!	
Too expensive!
I’m surprised!	
I’m tired.	
I’m confused.	
OK!	
Good luck!
I’m happy!	
I’m upset!	
I’m sad!	
I forgot!	
You’re great!
LISTENING TO HOW BODIES TALK
We use both words and body language to express our thoughts and opinions in our 
interactions with other people. We can learn a lot about what people are thinking by 
watching their body language. Words are important, but the way people stand, hold 
their arms, and move their hands can also give us information about their feelings.
Just like spoken language, body language varies from culture to culture. The crucial 
thing is using body language in a way that is appropriate to the culture you are in. 
For example, making eye contact—looking into someone’s eyes—in some countries 
is a way to display interest. In other countries, by contrast, eye contact is not always 
approved of. For example, in many Middle Eastern countries, men and women are 
not socially permitted to make eye contact. In Japan, it 
may demonstrate respect to look down when talking to an 
older person. 
The gesture for “OK” has different meanings in different 
cultures. In Japan, someone who witnesses another person 
employing the gesture might think it means money. In 
France, a person encountering an identical gesture may 
interpret it as meaning zero. However, you should avoid 
making this gesture in Brazil and Germany, as it is not 
considered polite. 
Even the gestures we use for “yes” and “no” differ around the 
world. In many countries, shaking one’s head means “no”, 
and nodding means “yes”. By comparison, in Bulgaria and 
southern Albania, the gestures have the opposite meaning. There are also differences in 
how we touch each other, how close we stand to someone 
we are talking to, and how we act when we meet or part. In 
countries like France and Russia, people may kiss their friends 
on the cheek when they meet. Elsewhere, people favour 
shaking hands, bowing from the waist, or nodding the head 
when they meet someone else.
Sometimes a passage does 
not say something directly. 
However, you can figure it 
out by looking at the clues 
in the passage.
Make inferences
38
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 46 =====
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
3	 Read the text again, and then discuss these questions.
1	 How is the body language mentioned in the text interpreted in China?
2	 Can you think of an example of body language that is appropriate in China but might be 
misunderstood in another culture?
3	 What advice on body language can you give a foreign friend on his/her first trip to China? 
4	 Watch the video Smile Trial, and then discuss the questions in groups.
1	 Smiles can be used to hide feelings like anger, fear, or worry. Can you describe a situation 
where you might smile when you don’t mean it?
2	 Apart from fake smiles, is there any other kind of body language that can sometimes be 
fake?
3	 Which is a more reliable guide for understanding someone’s feelings, their body language 
or the words they speak?
Some gestures seem to have the same meaning everywhere. Placing your hands 
together and resting them on the side of your head while closing your eyes means 
“sleep”. A good way of saying “I am full” is moving your hand in circles over your 
stomach after a meal.
Some body language has many different uses. Perhaps the best example is smiling. 
A smile can help us get through difficult situations and find friends in a world of 
strangers. A smile can break down barriers. We can use a smile to apologise, to 
greet someone, to ask for help, or to start a conversation. Experts suggest smiling 
at yourself in the mirror to make yourself feel happier and stronger. And if we are 
feeling down or lonely, there is nothing better than seeing the smiling face of a 
good friend. 
Body language/Gesture
Meaning
Country/Region
Eye contact between men and women
Not polite
Middle East
Looking down when talking to someone
OK sign
Kissing on the cheek
Placing your hands together and resting them 
on the side of your head while closing your 
eyes
Moving your hand in circles over your stomach 
after a meal
39

===== PAGE 47 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Fill in the table with different forms of the words. Refer to a dictionary 
if necessary.
Noun
Verb
Adjective
Adverb
differ
vary
rely
interact
approve
embarrass
2	 Work out the meanings of the underlined words in the sentences below. In 
pairs, list more words of the same kind.
1	 I rest my head on the desk to get some rest.
2	 The child displayed great interest in the huge fireworks display. 
3	 Most students favour the plan, while their teachers are not in favour of it.
4	 Jeremy witnessed the whole incident and was expected to be the key witness at the trial.
5	 His lack of eye contact when talking with people shows that he lacks confidence.
6	 When he noticed a slight frown on his twin sisterʼs face, he frowned as well.
3	 Read the passage about body language. Fill in the blanks with the correct 
forms of the words and phrases in the box.
by contrast	
by comparison	
break down	
interaction	
demonstrate	
approve of	
clue	
gesture
	
When we think about nonverbal behaviour, or body language, we think about communication. 
When we think about communication, we think about 
. So what is our body 
language 
 to others? Social scientists have spent a lot of time looking at the 
effects of our body language. We make assessments and inferences from body language. 
And according to those judgements we 
 one person and dislike another. So body 
language provides external 
 that are influenced by internal thoughts and feelings. 
Scientists have found that when we feel proud and powerful, we usually straighten up to make 
ourselves bigger. 
, when we feel powerless, we tend to slump, making ourselves 
smaller. It is obvious that our minds can influence our bodies. But is it also true that our bodies 
can affect our minds? Scientific experiments show that if we make powerful 
 long 
enough, we may actually feel more powerful. People who remember to use positive body 
language are more likely to feel positive 
, so some scientists suggest that we use 
our bodies to try power posing to help 
 our feelings of shyness and powerlessness. 
40
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 48 =====
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
Discover useful structures
1	 Look at the examples below, paying attention to the italicised parts. Find 
other examples from the reading text.
   She enjoys learning about body language in different cultures. (object)
   The crucial thing is using body language in a way … (predicative)
2	 Complete the sentences using the -ing form of the words and phrases in the 
box. Two are extra. Then state their functions.
lie	
challenge	
consider individual differences	
maintain
consider the whole picture	
evaluate a patientʼs condition
amuse    teach    break down    call on    bow    get through    assess
	
Reading body language is not an easy task. It can be 
 because 
interpreting the signs that another person shows requires 
. In this 
sense, it can be compared to a doctor 
. 
	
 is also key to reading people’s body language accurately. For 
example, when 
, some people avoid eye contact. By contrast, 
others may 
 eye contact even longer than usual.
1	 Bill’s job is 
 sign language.
2	 The theme of his presentation is 
 barriers between groups.
3	 By 
, we mean “bending our head or body forward as a sign of respect or 
shame”.
4	
 three kilometres of heavy traffic took me almost 25 minutes.
5	 We intended to visit the theme park but ended up 
 Professor Zhang.
3	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words and phrases in the 
box. Can you add more examples to explain how you read body language?
4	 Talk about the body language you can read from the following pictures. Use 
at least one -ing form for each picture. 
①
②
③
41

===== PAGE 49 =====
Using Language
1    Look at these photos and discuss what you think each person is communicating.
2	 Discuss when and where people need to use body language to communicate 
effectively. 
3	 Listen to a conversation about body language. Then answer the following 
questions.
1	
How did the man get the idea of using gestures to communicate?
2	
What did the police leader tell his team by using gestures?
3	
What did the woman say about the acting classes that she’s been taking?
4	
What did the man mean by saying “It’s good you tried” at the end of the conversation?
4	 Listen to the conversation again. Are the 
following statements correct inferences 
from the conversation?
1	
The two speakers are married.  
2	
Making too many gestures in communication 
is not polite.
3	
The police team were probably successful in 
catching the criminals.
4	
Both speakers think body language is useful.
5	
The woman is not very confident about her 
silent acting ability. 
5	 Act out a scene using only body language to communicate. You may follow these 
steps to complete your performance.
1	
Form into groups of four. One of you is the performer, and the others are observers.
2	
The performer writes down a situation and some messages to convey through body 
language. 
Explore body language
Sometimes things are not said directly, 
and so you must guess the meaning, 
relationship of the people, or context. 
You can do this by:
  drawing conclusions from the  
    background information you already 
    have.
  looking at clues that tell you the 
    context.
  using logic to work out the meaning.
Infer meaning
①
②
③
④
42
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 50 =====
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
Listening and Speaking
  
Pronunciation
Asking for and giving clarification
What did you mean by …?	
In other words …
So you mean …?	
What I meant was …
So did that mean …? 	
What I was trying to say was …
What I don’t quite understand is …  	
Does that make sense?
Could you explain …? 	
Is that clear?
Could you give me an example? 	
I can tell that …
1	 Read the quotes and notice the pause after each sense group.
1	 There are four ways, | and only four ways, | in which we have contact with the world. | 
We are evaluated and classified | by these four contacts: | what we do, | how we look, | 
what we say, | and how we say it. 	
Dale Carnegie
2	 If language was given to men | to conceal their thoughts, | then gesture’s purpose | 
was to disclose them.	
John Napier
3	 Body language is a powerful tool. | We had body language | before we had speech, | 
and apparently, | 80% of what you understand in a conversation | is read through the 
body, | not the words.	
Deborah Bull
2	 Read this passage. Then mark “|” where it needs a pause.
Life is a stage, and we are all actors. This is also true when you are in a foreign land. 
Acting can help you communicate even if you do not know the language. For instance, 
one day a Chinese lady who was babysitting her grandchild in America went to a 
supermarket to buy some beef. She was confused to see all kinds of meat there and did 
not know which ones were beef. She asked a clerk by putting both hands up and saying 
“Moo! Moo!” The lady got what she wanted even without saying a word of English.  
3	 Listen to the texts above and see how well you read.
1	
How does the teacher know what students are thinking?
2	
According to the teacher, what is some students’ favourite activity?
3	
What does the phrase “who knows what” mean?
4	
Why does the teacher think body language is important?
1  	 Look at the questions. Then read the text on page 44 and try to answer them.
Describe classroom body language
3	
The performer acts out the scene and the observers individually write down their thoughts 
without talking to anyone else. 
4	
The actor reveals the situation and messages, and the group compares notes. Use the 
table below to clarify any misunderstandings or different answers.
43

===== PAGE 51 =====
Using Language
HOW DO I KNOW MY STUDENTS?
As an educator, people often ask me how I know what is going on in the minds of my 
students. Many students are quite shy and don’t speak all that much. At the same time, in a 
classroom of more than forty students, it is hard to have many one-on-one conversations with 
each person. So, how can I really know what makes each student tick?
My answer? I look at their body language.
It is easy to recognise when students are interested in a lesson. Most tend to look up and make 
eye contact. When I make a joke, they smile. When I talk about something difficult, they look 
confused. I know when students are really interested, however, because they lean forward and 
look at me. People have a tendency to lean towards whatever they are interested in. So if a 
student has his head lowered to look at his watch, it implies he is bored and just counting the 
minutes for the class to end. If two friends are leaning their heads together, they are probably 
writing notes to each other. Of course, not everyone who looks up is paying attention in class. 
Some students look up, but there is an absence of eye contact. Their eyes barely move, and 
they always have the same distant expression on their faces. It is as though they are asleep 
with their eyes open. 
Some students are amused by something else. They spend all their time looking anywhere but 
at me. Then again, some students’ favourite activity is daydreaming. With their chins on their 
hands, they occupy themselves by staring out of the window or up at the ceiling. They are 
certainly interested in something, but who knows what. The main thing is reminding distracted 
students that they need to pay attention in class. 
While it is easy to perceive when students are interested, bored, or distracted, it is sometimes 
much harder to distinguish when students are troubled. Students who are angry, afraid, or 
experiencing anxiety may have their arms crossed in front of their chests and their legs closed 
or crossed, like they are guarding their bodies. Students who are sad or worried will nearly 
always wear a frown. They may also hide their faces in their hands like they are embarrassed 
or ashamed. Some students act this way merely because they are afraid of being called on by 
the teacher. However, if a student does not bother to brush her hair and her eyes are red from 
weeping, then I can infer that there are deeper issues at work. It could be that she is having 
serious conflicts with other students or at home. 
Whatever it is, I know I need to inquire and 
assess what is going on.
Ultimately, my duty is helping every student to 
learn. Their body language lets me know when 
to adjust class activities, when to intervene, and 
when to talk to students individually, so they can 
all get the most out of school. Reacting to body 
language is an important component of being a 
teacher.
44
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 52 =====
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
2	 Match the body language with the meanings. Write the letters A-J on the lines.
  1	 Looking up and making eye contact	
	
A	 very interested
  2	 Leaning over to look at one’s watch	
	
B	 bored
  3	 Two friends leaning heads together	
	
C	 interested
  4	 Leaning forward and looking at the teacher	
	
D	 sad or worried
  5	 Looking up, but no eye contact, no expression	 	
E	 distracted
  6	 Looking away	
	
F	 writing notes
  7	 Chin on hand, looking out of the window	
	
G	serious problems
  8	 Looking down, arms or legs crossed	
	
H	 like they are asleep
  9	 Frowning	
	
 I	 daydreaming
  10	Hair not brushed, red eyes	
	
J	 angry, afraid, or 
	
	
	
	
	
experiencing anxiety
3	 Look at the following photos. In groups, discuss what these people are doing and 
what their body language is telling you.
4	 Draw someone you know. Show his/her body language in your drawing.
5	 Write a passage to describe the body language of the person in your drawing, and 
explain what his/her body language tells us.
6	 Exchange your draft with a partner.
1 
Use the checklist to help you review your partnerʼs draft.
             
 Is the person properly identified?
             
 Is the description clear?
             
 Does the writer give his/her impressions of the feelings and personality of the 
	
    person in the drawing, and also explain why he/she has these impressions?
             
 Does the writer use correct grammar, punctuation, and spelling?
2 
Take your draft back and revise it.
7	 Share your drawing and description with the rest of the class.
①
②
③
45

===== PAGE 53 =====
1    How important is body language? Complete the passage with the correct forms 
of the words in the box to find out.
	
There are three 
 in any face-to-face communication: words, tone of voice, and 
body language. It is said that most of what we communicate with others is nonverbal. So when 
 with people, 
 the message conveyed by body language is 
. 
	
You cannot succeed in business and social encounters if you employ inappropriate body 
language. For example, 
 someone too long can be interpreted as a threat, standing 
too close may cause 
 and uneasiness, and touching your neck when talking to 
others probably 
 that you feel nervous and 
 confidence. Sometimes 
body language speaks louder than words.
2   	Decide whether each verb in its -ing form functions as a subject (S), object (O), 
predicative (P), or attribute (A).
1	
Seeing is believing.
2	
A man cannot be robbed of his learning.
3	
Living without an aim is like sailing without a compass. 
4	
After staying in the sleeping bag the whole night, I really needed to stretch my legs.
5	
You should have been more careful. She started coughing and sneezing yesterday.
6	
One may agree that in a conversation, listening is as powerful as loving.
7	
After a long day she looked forward to putting her feet up with a nice cup of tea.
8	
Isabella really put her back into learning Chinese. She wants to start living in China in two 
or three months. 
9	
Fishing in troubled waters may cause even more problems. 
Assessing Your Progress
  Which body language in this unit do you use most often? Does it have the same 
meaning as in the text?
  What do you think you could do to communicate better with other people?
  Do you think you will be able to tell more from reading others’ body language from 
now on?
  What problems did you or your friends have in studying this unit? How did you  
solve them? What advice did you give each other?
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
crucial	
perceive	
lack	
component	
demonstrate	
interact	
stare at   	 embarrassment
46
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 54 =====
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE
1	 In groups, brainstorm a list of different kinds of body language. Use the 
information from this unit, your own experience and knowledge, and/or 
the website excerpt below.
2	 Based on your list, research online to discover what the same kinds of body 
language mean in different cultures.
3	 Each group should come up with its own body language information sheet like 
	
the example below. Drawings and/or photos can be added to show what the 
different forms of body language look like.
 
*Project: Make a body language information sheet
Body Language Information Sheet
Body language
Meaning
Moving the hand in circles over the stomach 
after a meal.
Almost everywhere: I’m full.
The “OK” sign.
Japan: money
France: zero
Brazil and Germany: not polite
China: …
4	 Present your information sheet to the class, and then vote on the best one.
Standing with one’s hands on one’s hips shows that a person is angry in many 
cultures, such as Malaysia, Argentina, and Mexico.
Many Mexicans like to touch people on the arm. This shows that they want to be 
friendly.
When communicating with someone from Tanzania or Kenya, do not use your left 
hand when giving or receiving things like a business card or gift.
In Vietnamese culture, the head is considered the most important part of the body. 
Only parents or an important person can touch your head. 
If a Lebanese person stands close to you, do not feel that they are entering your 
personal space. Personal space is relatively smaller in Lebanon and many other 
places.
In Korean culture, one must be careful not to show too much emotion through facial 
expressions, except in very casual situations. Koreans may tend to distrust people 
who use exaggerated facial expressions, or may misunderstand what those facial 
expressions mean.
People of Puerto Rico move their noses to say, “What’s going on here?”
47

===== PAGE 55 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Look at the photos from the film The Immigrant and discuss the questions.	
	1	 What do you think these characters’ body language and expressions mean?
	2	 In groups, discuss what you think the story of this film is.
WHILE  YOU WATCH
Think about the answers to these questions.
	1	 Why does Chaplin keep putting money into the woman’s pocket and taking it out?
	2	 Where does Chaplin get the money to eat at the restaurant?
	3	 Why does the waiter become angry with Chaplin?
	4	 Why does the man sitting next to Chaplin become angry with him?
	5	 Can Chaplin pay the restaurant bill in the end?
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Work in groups. Finish the following activities.
1	 Write a script, assign roles, and “dub” the scene. 
2	 Discuss if the film is better dubbed or silent.
3	 Discuss what you think will happen next in the film.
The Immigrant
In the film The Immigrant, Charlie 
Chaplin acts as an immigrant who is 
unused to life in a different country.
* Video Time
①
④
②
⑤
③
⑥
48
UNIT 4  BODY LANGUAGE

===== PAGE 56 =====