UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
My lifelong pursuit is to 
keep all the people 
away from hunger.
—Yuan Longping
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about agricultural scientist Yuan Longping.
2  listen to and talk about the problem of world 
hunger. 
3  write about your opinion on organic farming or 
chemical farming. 
4  learn about farming industries in other 
countries. 
    Look and discuss
1  Where do you think the photo was taken, 
and what is it of?
2	 Have you ever been to a place like this? 
What was it like? 
WORKING 
THE LAND
UNIT 5
49

===== PAGE 57 =====
Get to know an agricultural scientist
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, look at the photo and the title of the text. Discuss these 
questions in groups. 
1	 Who is the man in the photo? What crop is he holding in his hands? 
2	 What do you know about the man? What else do you want to know about him? 
A PIONEER FOR ALL PEOPLE
Yuan Longping, known as the “father of hybrid rice”, was one of China’s most famous 
scientists. Yet, he considered himself a farmer because he continually worked the land in 
his research. Indeed, his slim but strong body was just like that of millions of Chinese farmers, 
to whom he had devoted his life. 
Yuan Longping was born in 1930 in Beijing. His parents 
wanted him to pursue a career in science or medicine. 
However, what concerned him most was that farmers 
often had poor harvests and sometimes even had a 
serious shortage of food to eat. To tackle this crisis, he 
chose to study agriculture and received an education at 
Southwest Agricultural College in Chongqing. 
After graduating in 1953, he worked as a researcher. Yuan 
Longping realised that larger fields were not the solution. 
Instead, farmers needed to boost yields in the fields they 
had. How this could be done was a challenging question 
at the time. Yuan was convinced that the answer could 
be found in the creation of hybrid rice. A hybrid is a 
cross between two or more varieties of a species. One 
characteristic of hybrids is that they usually attain a higher yield than conventional crops. 
However, whether it was possible to develop a hybrid of self-pollinating plants such as rice 
was a matter of great debate. The common assumption then was that it could not be 
done. Through intense effort, Yuan overcame enormous technical difficulties to develop 
the first hybrid rice that could be used for farming in 1974. This hybrid enabled farmers to 
expand their output greatly. 
Today, it is estimated that about 60 percent of domestic rice consumption in China is 
Paragraph 1
Paragraph 2
Paragraph 3
Paragraph 4
Paragraph 5
Paragraph 6
A 	 Yuan conducted research and developed hybrid rice. 
B 	 Yuan worked hard to fulfil his dreams. 
C 	 Yuan considered himself a farmer. 
D 	 Yuan decided to study agriculture.
E	 Yuan’s innovation has helped to feed more people. 
F 	 Yuan cared little for fame or wealth.
2	 Read the text. Match the main idea with each paragraph. 
50
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 58 =====
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
3	 Read the text again and answer the questions.
1	 Why did Yuan Longping consider himself a farmer?
2	 Why did Yuan decide to study agriculture?
3 	 What is the main advantage of hybrid crops?
4 	 How has Yuan’s work helped China and other countries?
5 	 What was Yuan’s later vision?
4	 Complete the sentences with the 
correct forms of the words in the 
box.
	
Often, new words are not really “new”—
they are just different forms of words that 
you may already know. For instance, a word 
ending with -ate is often a verb, while a word 
ending in -tion is often a noun. Thus, we have 
communicate (verb) and communication (noun). 
English has many word patterns like this. 
Use word formation to guess the meaning
create	
estimation	
education	
generation	
graduate
comprised of crops generated from Yuan’s hybrid strains, and his strains have allowed 
China’s farmers to produce around 200 million tons of rice per year. Yuan’s innovation has 
helped feed not just China, but many other countries that depend on rice as well, such 
as India and Vietnam. Because of his invaluable contributions, Yuan Longping received 
numerous awards both in China and abroad.
Given that Yuan’s hybrids made him quite wealthy, one might think he would have retired 
to a life of leisure. However, this is far from the case. Deep down, Yuan was still very much 
a farmer at heart. As a man of the soil, he cared little for celebrity or money. Instead, he 
made large donations to support agricultural research.
What impressed people most about Yuan Longping was his ongoing ability to fulfil his 
dreams. Long ago, he envisioned rice plants as tall as sorghum, with each ear of rice as 
big as a broom, and each grain of rice as huge as a peanut. He succeeded in producing 
a kind of rice that could feed more people at home and abroad. His later vision for 
“seawater rice” also became a reality, and potentially opened up nearly one million 
square kilometres of salty land in China for rice production. Even in his later years, Yuan 
Longping was still young at heart and full of vision, and everyone was always excited to 
see what he would dream up next. 
1	 This school has 
 thousands of bright young students over the years.
2 	 Most students look for jobs after university 
.
3 	 Because of the 
 of new strains of hybrid crops, people in many parts of the 
      world now have more food to eat.
4 	 Last year, this new electric power plant 
 enough energy to power the whole city.
5 	 It was difficult to calculate exactly how many trees had been cut down. However, a general
     	
 was possible.
5	 Discuss these questions in groups. 
1 	 Apart from rice, what are some other important crops in China? What do you know about 
them? 
2 	 Other than hybrid rice, what other hybrid products do you know? Can you think of new 
hybrid ideas? 
51

===== PAGE 59 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Replace the underlined words with the correct forms of the words from the text. 
 	
1 	To deal with this crisis, he chose to study agriculture.   
 	
2 	He is a very good actor and he commits himself to every role that he takes on.  
 	
3 	Yuan Longping strongly believed that the answer could be found in the 
creation of hybrid rice. 
 	
4 	Yuan Longping, through intense effort, solved enormous difficulties and 
developed the first hybrid rice that could be used for farming. 
 	
5 	This hybrid enabled farmers to increase their output greatly. 
 	
6 	Students are encouraged to try a variety of free-time activities to reduce the 
intense stress from studying.  
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words from the text. 
Then use these words to make your own sentences.
1 	 The c
 of a person are the special qualities that make him or her different from 
others. 
2 	 Scientists from different countries have been pursuing various possibilities to overcome 
food s
. 
3 	 Many of us a
 that earthquakes would never happen in our area.
4 	 With more and more farm machines being used in the fields, the c
 of fuel has 
been increasing.
5 	 Newspapers should pay less attention to media c
 and more attention to our 
national heroes.
6 	 Our general manager tried his best to help overcome the difficulties we were facing during 
the financial c
.
7 	 My mother is very c
 and finds it hard to accept the modern lifestyle that I enjoy.
8 	 The government has decided to boost the programme to g
 more new jobs.
3	 Complete the news report below with the correct forms of the words and 
phrases in the box.
tackle  vision  conventional  deep down  be comprised of  reality  consumption
	
A vast underground shelter built during World War Ⅱ has been turned into an urban farm, 
supplying supermarkets and restaurants in London. The shelter, which could protect up to 
8,000 people from wartime bombs, 
 two large tunnels that were intended to one 
day become an extension of the London Underground. But that never became 
 and 
the shelter was left for 70 years. Then businessmen decided to make use of it to grow green 
vegetables to meet increasing 
 demands.
 
The tunnels are lit with pink LEDs as there is no natural light 
 below the ground. The 
vegetables are grown in special liquids instead of the earth that is used as in 
 farming. 
Many experts share a 
 that this kind of urban farming could help not only 
in 
 the problem of population growth, but also in adapting to climate change.
52
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 60 =====
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
Discover useful structures
1	 Look at the complex sentences below and state the functions of the noun 
clauses italicised. Then find similar complex sentences from the text.
•	 What Yuan Longping really cared about was not money or celebrity. 
•	 That Yuan Longping had realised his dream of seawater rice surprised the whole world. 
•	 It surprised the whole world that Yuan Longping had realised his dream of developing 
seawater rice.
2	 Match the sentence parts, and then translate the completed sentences into 
Chinese. Pay attention to how the subjects are introduced differently. 
3	 Read the passage and underline all the subject clauses. Then in pairs, 
discuss whether the sentences with subject clauses can be paraphrased.  
Grandma has been complaining about the vegetables sold in the supermarket, which have been 
grown using chemical fertilisers. To her, that they look beautiful on the outside is obvious. However, 
what she is unhappy about is the lower nutritional value and reduced flavour. Now that both of my 
grandparents have retired from their jobs in the city, how they are going to spend their retirement is 
an important decision for them. Whether they can live a healthy life is the first thing they are 
considering. So they have made up their minds to move to the countryside, where they can live a 
green life.
4	 What qualities do you think make a person like Yuan Longping so successful? 
Work in groups. Have a discussion and prepare a presentation. The following 
points and expressions may help you. 
	
•	 his/her determination to tackle the crisis of …
	
•	 his/her intense effort to overcome …
	
•	 his/her dream to develop …
	
•	 his/her love and care for …
	
•	 he/she succeeded in …
	
•	 he/she never gave up …
	
•	 he/she is devoted to …
A	 What worries many people 
B	 That the lifestyle is slower and 
healthier
C	 How we can find a suitable 
solution to produce sufficient food 
while keeping the environment safe 
D	 When these wheat farmers will join 
this pilot experiment 
E	 It amazed all of us that 
What impresses me most is that …
What makes him/her a great … is that …
It is important that …
Whether … depends on … 
That …  is his/her most important quality.
1	
 remains an unanswered question. 
2	
 is an important topic for us to 
research.
3	
 is that these chemicals may 
even cause cancer.
4	
 these vegetables can even be 
planted without any soil through this new 
technology. 
5	
 is the reason why some people 
prefer to live in the country rather than in the 
city. 
53

===== PAGE 61 =====
Using Language
1    In pairs, discuss what you can see in the photos and how you think each photo 
relates to world hunger.
2	 Listen to a radio interview and take notes.  Then answer the following questions.
1 	 What is the FAO? What is its mission? 
2 	 What can seriously affect crop production? 
3 	 What does the FAO think about nutritious food? 
4 	 What is the FAO doing to alleviate world hunger? 
5 	 What does the FAO suggest countries do?
3	 Listen again and identify how the 
       speaker supports his facts. Match the 
       supporting evidence with the facts.
Explore the world hunger problem
Identify supporting evidence
When people present important 
facts, they usually give some 
evidence to support their claims. 
The evidence is usually mentioned 
at the start of a sentence. Listen out 
for key words like report, research, 
studies, figures, findings, etc.
Possible cause
Possible solution
4	 Work in pairs. Discuss the following questions and then share your answers in 
class. Use a table like the one below to help you organise your thoughts.
1 	 What are all the possible causes of world hunger that you can think of? 
2 	 What can people and countries do to help alleviate these causes?
5	 Work in groups to brainstorm ideas for 
some school activities that celebrate 
World Food Day. Use the expressions to 
help you communicate with your group 
members. 
World Food Day (WFD) was 
created by the FAO in 1979. It 
is celebrated in more than 150 
countries, raising awareness and 
knowledge of the problems and 
causes behind world hunger and 
poverty.
①
②
③
1	 According to our latest figures, …
	
2	 There is strong evidence to suggest 
that …	
3	 Our research indicates that …	
A	 wars can heavily affect food production 
and transportation.
B	 (world hunger) stands at around 11% of 
the world’s population. 
C	 many people just can’t afford to eat 
well.
54
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 62 =====
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
Listening and Speaking
Sharing your opinions
I’d rather …	
In my eyes ...	
In my opinion ... 	
Without a doubt ... 	
The advantages are …	
I have a feeling that ...	
It’s a pity that …	
I’d prefer … because …  	
My impression is that ...	
I think/guess/believe ...	
From my point of view, ...	
My view/opinion/belief is that ...
1    Read the text, and then answer the questions on page 56. 
Evaluate chemical farming and organic farming
CHEMICAL VERSUS ORGANIC FARMING
Chemical pesticides and artificial fertilisers have been in widespread use in farming since the 
middle of the 20th century. When they were first introduced, many farmers welcomed them 
as a great way to fight crop disease and increase production. Over time, however, what some 
scientists have found is that their long-term use can sometimes harm both the land and people’s 
health.
For example, pesticides can damage the land by 
killing not only harmful bacteria and insects, but 
also helpful ones. In addition, these chemicals can 
stay in the soil and underground water sources for a 
long time. This affects the crops grown on the land 
and, in turn, the animals and humans who digest 
them. Many people worry that these chemicals 
may make them ill and even cause cancer. In fact, 
some pesticides like DDT have been prohibited in 
most countries because of the damage they cause 
to people and the environment. As for chemical 
fertilisers, crops grown with them usually grow too fast to be rich in nutrition. They may look 
beautiful on the outside, but inside there is usually more water than essential minerals, and they 
often have less flavour as well.
As an alternative, some farmers have switched to organic farming, and many customers have turned 
to organic food when they shop at the local grocery. Organic farming is simply farming without using 
any chemicals. Organic farmers focus on keeping their soil rich and free of disease through natural 
means. For example, many organic farmers use natural waste from animals as fertiliser. This makes 
the soil in their fields richer in minerals. It also keeps the air, soil, water, and crops free of chemicals.
Organic farmers also use many other methods to produce rich soil. They often change the kind of 
55

===== PAGE 63 =====
1   Why did many farmers welcome the introduction of chemical farming?
2   What concerns many people about the use of pesticides?
3   What is one problem with the use of chemical fertilisers?
4   How is organic farming different from chemical farming?
5   Why do organic farmers change the kind of crop grown in a field every year?
6	 What is the goal of using organic farming methods? Do you think it can be reached? Why or 
why not?
2	 Match the main ideas (A-D) below with the paragraphs. Then complete the 
sentences in the table.
	A   What organic farming is    B   Why man-made chemicals are still used in farming 
	C   Organic methods for producing rich soil    D   The problems with chemical farming
Paragraph
Main Idea
Detail
1 2
•  Pesticides can kill helpful 
.
•  Some pesticides have been 
 because of the 
 
.
•  Crops grown with chemical fertilisers usually 
 to be 
  full of 
.
3
•  Many organic farmers use 
 as fertiliser.
4
•  They often 
 grown in each field 
.
•  They also plant crops that use 
 of the soil to help 
  keep it rich.
5
•  Organic farming is nowhere near able to meet the high 
 
.
Using Language
crop grown in each field every year. For instance, they 
may grow corn or wheat in a field one year, and then 
grow beans there the next. Why different crops are 
grown is because they put important minerals back into 
the ground, making it ready for the next batch of crops. 
Organic farmers also plant diverse crops that use different 
depths of soil to help keep it rich. For example, peanuts 
grow on the ground’s surface, but many other vegetables 
put down deep roots. The goal of using different organic 
farming methods is to grow good food while avoiding 
damage to the environment or to people’s health.
Some people would prefer to stop the use of man-made chemicals in agriculture entirely. 
What keeps them from doing so is the fact that chemical farming serves the high demand for 
food around the world. Organic farming is nowhere near able to meet that need. Therefore, 
there is still a long way to find a suitable solution that puts sufficient food on the dinner table 
while keeping people and the environment as healthy as possible.
56
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 64 =====
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
3	 Write an argumentative essay giving your opinion on chemical or organic farming.
1   Discuss these questions in groups.
 
•  Is the author of the passage for or against organic farming? How do you know?
 
•  What other disadvantages of chemical farming did the author not list?
 
•  How might the following items be problems and how important are they for organic farming?
	
 
 
•  What other disadvantages of organic farming can you think of?
2   Decide whether your group supports chemical farming or organic farming. Come up with 
     three main points to support your opinion, and then add at least one detail to support each 
     main point. Complete the outline below. 
      Topic sentence: In my opinion, 
 farming is preferable to 
 farming because 
      
Point 1:	
   
	 	
（Detail） 
	 	
Point 2:	  
  
	 	
（Detail） 
	 	
Point 3:	  
  
	 	
（Detail） 
	 	
Conclusion: 
3	
Use your outline to write a short essay giving your opinion on the topic.
4	 Exchange your draft with a partner. 
1   Use this checklist to help you review your partnerʼs draft.
            
 Does the writer do a good job of expressing his/her opinion?
            
 Does each paragraph have one main idea?
            
 Does each paragraph have at least one detail to support its main idea? 
            
 Does the writer sequence the points in a logical order? 
            
 Does the writer do a good job persuading you to accept his/her opinion?
2   Take your draft back and revise it.
5 	 Share your essay with the rest of the class.
natural animal waste used as fertiliser
higher cost of producing food
greater effort required to farm
57

===== PAGE 65 =====
1    	Read and complete the passage with the correct forms of the words and 
phrases in the box. Then answer the questions.
	
Jia Sixie was a government official from Shandong Province who conducted a lot of agricultural 
research in the sixth century. In his travels, he observed that some farmers had much better 
 than others, so he decided to investigate the best ways of 
 good harvests. 
After retiring, he wrote a book, Qi Min Yao Shu, which 
 sound advice and practices for 
people doing agricultural work. In one piece of advice, 
, he told farmers to clear weeds 
from the ground before planting crops. They could either let the animals eat the weeds or turn the 
 over so that the weeds were covered. Then he gave advice on ploughing, suggesting 
that the autumn ploughing should be at a greater 
 than the spring ploughing. He also 
suggested changing crops to get better harvests every year. Finally, he suggested that farmers grow 
a 
 range of crops next to each other in the fields. Although it has been centuries since Jia 
Sixie died, Qi Min Yao Shu is still considered a(n) 
 book in Chinaʼs agricultural history.
1 	 Why did Jia Sixie investigate good ways of farming?
2 	 What makes Qi Min Yao Shu an important book in Chinaʼs agricultural history?
2    	Fill in the blanks with that, whether, or wh- question words to complete the 
sentences.
1 	
 the research centre is to be set up has not been decided. 
2 	
 many countries still face food shortages remains a big problem. 
3 	
 impressed me most was that the hybrid rice enabled farmers to expand their 
output greatly. 
4 	
	the plan is to be carried out still needs discussing. 
5 	
	the new chemical pesticide is effective remains to be seen. 
6 	
	will join in the research team will be announced tomorrow. 
7 	
 he quit his high-paying job is not difficult to understand. He wanted to start up 
his own business.  
Assessing Your Progress
  What did you learn about agriculture that you did not know before?
  What interested you most about agriculture in this unit? Give your reasons.   
  What other important aspects of agriculture do you want to know about? 
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.    
REFLECTING 
attain	
be comprised of	
depth	
diverse 
essential	
for instance	
output	
soil
58
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 66 =====
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND
1	 In groups, discuss this line of poetry, “Every single grain on your plate is the 
result of hard work.” 
•   What does this line mean to you?
•   How should this knowledge affect your daily life?
2	 Brainstorm a list of your favourite dishes. Each dish should be comprised of five 
or more ingredients.
3	 Choose one dish from your list that everyone in your group likes. Find a list of its 
ingredients from a recipe or a product label.
EXAMPLE: Kung Pao Chicken is made with chicken, peanuts, 
onions, red peppers, Sichuan peppercorns, ginger, garlic, oil, 
cooking wine, salt, soy sauce, vinegar, etc. 
4	 Assign team members to research where and how 
each of these ingredients is produced. 
EXAMPLE: Peanuts are planted in April or May. It takes around 120 to 160 days for them to be 
ready for harvesting. This is usually done by hand. The farmer pulls the peanut plants out of the 
ground and leaves them in the field to dry. The peanuts are then collected and separated from 
their vines. They are dried for some more time and then taken to the market for sale.
*Project: Make a poster of your favourite dish, from field to plate
5	 Work together to make a poster about your favourite dish. Each team member 
should explain where at least one ingredient comes from and how it is produced.
6	 Present your poster to the class. 
59

===== PAGE 67 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Complete the passage with the words in the box.
  	
Earth University is located in Guacimo, Costa Rica. It is not a(n) 
 university. What is 
 about it is that students study both in classrooms and in the fields. That is because 
Earth University is a(n) 
 school where students learn about farming. The kind of farming 
taught here is called 
 farming. The farming 
 they learn have little or no 
negative impact on the environment. In class, they also learn about 
, which is the study 
of how to protect the natural balance of the environment. The students grow bananas on the farm 
for 
. The money they get from these bananas goes towards 
 for students 
from poor areas. 
WHILE  YOU WATCH
Circle the best answers.
	
1	 Which is not a goal of Earth University? 
	
	
A To teach poor students.      B To teach students how to make food with bananas.
	
	
C To give students skills to protect the environment.
	
2	 Most of the students are from 
.
	
	
A Africa	
B Latin America	
C Costa Rica
	
3	 Students have to work six days a week for 
.
	
	
A half of the year	
B most of the year	
C the entire year
	
4	 Earth University students also learn about 
.
	
	
A chemical farming	
B leadership	
C economics 
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss these questions in groups.
	
1	 What do you like about Earth University? 
	
2	 Would you like to study at Earth University? Why or why not?
agricultural	
ecology	
methods	
profit 
scholarships	
sustainable	
typical	
unique
Earth University
Earth University is a special university 
in Costa Rica, where students learn 
sustainable farming methods that can 
protect the environment.
* Video Time
60
UNIT 5  WORKING THE LAND

===== PAGE 68 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
1	 Choose words from the box to 
make phrases. Some words can 
be used more than once.
      
1	 a 
 wind
2	 a 
 supporter
3	 a 
 research institute
4	 a 
 southern accent
5	 an 
 successful career
6	
 facts	 	
7	
 achievements
8	
 accepted the change
9	  
 their contributions
2	 Complete the sentences with the 
correct forms of the words in the 
box.
Using Words and Expressions 
 
UNIT 1