
===== PAGE 29 =====
UNIT 2
TRAVELLING AROUND
2 TRAVELLING
UNIT AROUND
Travel, in the younger sort,
is a part of education;
in the elder, a part of experience.
—Francis Bacon
In this unit, you will Look and discuss
1 read about tours to Peru and China. 1 Where do you think the travellers in the photo are?
2 listen to people discuss their travel plans. 2 Do you like travelling? Who do you like to travel with?
3 talk about preparing for travel and how to 3 What places have you travelled to? What words can
make reservations for a trip. you use to describe your trips?
4 write a travel plan.
5 learn about travelling at home and abroad.
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 23

===== PAGE 30 =====
Listening and Speaking
Get ready to travel
1 Before you listen, discuss the questions in groups.
1 If you have the chance to travel anywhere in the world, where will you go?
2 What do you need to do to prepare for the trip?
1 2 3 4
the Eiffel Tower, France Lijiang, China Neuschwanstein Castle, Germany Tianshan, China
get a passport apply for a visa book tickets book a hotel room
rent a car buy a guidebook pack some clothes research the local weather
2 Paul and Meilin are talking about the coming holiday. Listen to the first part
of the conversation and choose the correct answers.
Focus on key words
1 Circle the two places Meilin is going to for holiday.
A Germany. B England. C Iceland. D France. Do not try to catch every word
in a conversation. Instead,
2 How is she going to get there?
listen for key words and
A By sea. B By air. C By train. phrases. You should focus on
getting the main idea, not on
3 How is she planning to get around after she arrives?
single words or grammar.
A By car. B By train. C On foot.
3 Listen to the second part of the conversation and answer the questions.
1 Where is Paul’s family going over the holiday?
2 Why are they going there?
4 Listen to the whole conversation again and fill in the table below.
Travel Meilin Paul
Preparations
Get her passport a few light
for her visa sweaters and a coat
air tickets online a guidebook
a car
24 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND

===== PAGE 31 =====
5 Choose a travel destination and think about what you would do to prepare to
travel there. Then share your travel plans with a partner.
Where: Neuschwanstein Castle, Germany Where: Jiuzhaigou, China
Why famous: the model for the castle Why famous: amazing waterfalls,
in Disneyland colourful lakes, beautiful mountains
Best time to visit: Best time to visit:
September/October (autumn) April/May or September/October
EXAMPLE
A: Hi, Julie! Do you have any plans for the holiday?
B: Hi, Wang Lei! Yes, I’m planning to travel to Jiuzhaigou. Actually, I’ve just
finished the travel arrangements!
A: Oh, good idea! Jiuzhaigou is an extremely beautiful place.
B: Yes, I’m looking forward to seeing the colourful lakes, amazing waterfalls ...
A: How are you getting ready for your trip?
B: I’m …
Pronunciation
1 Listen and repeat. Then add more words to each group.
ck ch tch ph sh th th wh wh ng qu
ticket search catch photo wish thing weather when who song quarter
pack check Dutch graph shock think neither what whose wing request
gu igh kn mb wr c c g g x x
guest high know climb write copy face green large text exam
guide night knee comb wrist local twice blog general except exact
2 Listen to the sentences below. Notice the pronunciation of the letters in bold.
1 A traveller without observation is a bird without wings. (Moslih Eddin Saadi)
2 To travel is to discover that everyone is wrong about other countries. (Aldous
Huxley)
3 I see my path, but I don’t know where it leads. Not knowing where I’m going is
what inspires me to travel it. (Rosalia de Castro)
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 25

===== PAGE 32 =====
Reading and Thinking
Explore Peru
1 Watch the video Welcome to Peru and answer the questions.
1 What did you see in the video?
2 What other sources of information can you find about Peru?
2 Below are two texts about Peru. Look through them quickly. What types of text
are they: encyclopedia or brochure?
PEru is a country on the Pacific coast
Recognise text
of South America with three main
type
areas: narrow, dry, flat land running
along the coast, the Andes Mountains, Before you read,
and the Amazon rainforest. look through the
text quickly for
In the 1400s and 1500s, Peru was the titles, headers,
centre of the powerful ancient Inca pictures, charts,
Empire. The Inca emperor lived in and any other
the now-famous site Machu Picchu. information that
Spain took control of Peru in the 16th might tell you
century and ruled until 1821. It is for what type of text
this reason that Spanish is the main it is.
official language of Peru.
TRAVEL PERU
Amazon Rainforest Tour Machu Picchu Tour
A short flight from Cusco takes you This four-day walking tour will take you
from the Andes into the Amazon on amazing paths through the Andes
rainforest. From there, you’ll spend Mountains on the way to the city of Machu
one day travelling by boat to your Picchu. After reaching your destination, you
accommodation in the middle of the will have a day to explore and be amazed
forest. You can then spend three days by this ancient city. Especially amazing is
exploring the rainforest with a local the Incas’ dry stone method of building.
guide and enjoying the plants and Inca builders cut stones to exact sizes so that
animals unique to the rainforest. nothing was needed to hold walls together
other than the perfect fit of the stones.
26 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND

===== PAGE 33 =====
3 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the new words from the two texts.
Cusco is a popular d for tourists, because of its u place in the history
of South America. Cusco was the capital city of the Inca E which was the most
powerful in South America until the 1500s. There are two especially interesting things to
a about the Inca civilisation. The first is the roads and p they built to
connect their important cities. These Inca roads were made up of two north-south highways
and many small roads crossing the mountains east to west. The roads were for Inca soldiers
and their o . Second, the Incas built wonderful cities full of amazing architecture—
but there were no markets in these cities. One of the interesting questions of history is how the
Incas lived without shopping!
4 Read the text and fill in the table. Then discuss the question below with a partner.
Place AMAZON RAINFOREST MACHU PICCHU CUSCO LAKE TITICACA
CUSCO LAKE TITICACA
Number of days 4 days
Transport
Accommodation local home
local home
boating, hiking,
Activity
exploring nature
Which tour(s) would you recommend for people who enjoy history and culture?
Cusco Tour Lake Titicaca Tour
Spend four days enjoying the unique Spanish Enjoy the beautiful countryside as you
and local Indian culture high in the Andes spend a day driving along the new highway
at Cusco, the capital of the Inca Empire from connecting Cusco to Lake Titicaca. There, a
the 13th until the 16th century. Stay in a boat will take you to stay with a local Uros
local hotel, visit the museums, admire the family on an island for three days. Both
architecture, enjoy the excellent local food, the island and the Uros homes are made of
and go shopping at the local markets. water plants from the lake.
So come and experience what Peru has to offer: everything from the ancient Inca culture and centuries-old
Spanish villages to deep rainforests, high mountains, and a beautiful coastline.
For more brochures about other package tours around Peru, contact us at tourinfo@travelperu.org.
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 27

===== PAGE 34 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
Talk about your future plans
1 Look at the sentences. What do you think the tense in the sentences expresses?
I’m travelling around Europe for two weeks with my aunt and uncle.
We’re renting a car and driving!
My parents are taking me to Hong Kong during the October holiday.
2 Read the conversation and underline verbs in the present continuous tense.
Discuss with a partner when and how these verbs are used.
Amy: Hello, Jeremy! What are you doing this weekend?
Jeremy: Hi, Amy! Some friends and I are going to that new water park on Saturday. Do you
want to join us?
Amy: Sure, I’d love to! What time and where?
Jeremy: We’re meeting at 10:00 a.m. at the bus stop near our school.
Amy: How about lunch? Are you eating at the water park?
Jeremy: Well, I’m bringing my own lunch. I think some of the others are eating at the park,
but the food there is really expensive.
3 Read the sentences and tick those that express future plans. Rewrite them in the
present continuous tense.
1 I’ve just booked my air ticket! I’ll visit my grandparents in December.
2 Gary might visit China next year, but he’s still not sure.
3 Kate has been invited to a meeting in Iceland. She will apply for a visa soon.
4 Could you help me with this box, please? I’m afraid I’m going to drop it.
5 A: Hey, are you free for dinner tonight?
B: I’m sorry, no. I’ll have dinner with my cousins tonight.
4 Discuss weekend plans with a partner, based on the weather report below.
Saturday Sunday
Morning Afternoon Evening Morning Afternoon Evening
20℃ 25℃ 19℃ 21℃ 20℃ 17℃
weather: sunny weather: sunny weather: clear weather: cloudy weather: rainy weather: cloudy
wind: light wind: light wind: strong wind: strong wind: light wind: none
EXAMPLE
A: What are you doing on Saturday morning?
B: Well, it’s going to be sunny in the morning and not very windy, so I’m having a picnic
with my friends.
28 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND

===== PAGE 35 =====
Listening and Talking
Make reservations
1 Listen to the phone call and answer the questions.
1 What are the two speakers talking about?
2 What is the relationship between the two speakers?
2 Listen again and complete the table with the words you hear.
Making reservations
to buy a plane
Opening can I help you?
ticket ...
Talking about are you On the 23rd of December.
time travelling?
There are two flights ...
Which ? The 9:30 flight, please.
Talking about Would travel to travel
what you prefer business class or economy? business class.
book a return No, . I’m taking
flight this time? the train back.
Other information your name, sir? Robert Williams.
Payment to pay? By credit card.
3 Imagine you are making plans for the holiday. Choose one of the situations
below and role-play a phone call with a partner.
Booking air tickets Booking a hotel room Booking a table for dinner
Details Details Details
travel date(s) check in/check out date
preferred time breakfast time
one-way or return Internet number of people
Flight class Kind of room Special requests
first class 2 single beds non-smoking area
business class double bed high chair(s)
economy class king bed other:
Other information Special requests
name a view
method of payment a non-smoking room
a quiet room
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 29

===== PAGE 36 =====
Reading for Writing
Write to a friend about a travel plan
1 Read Richard’s email to his friend and the brochure that he found. Do you think
his plan sounds interesting? Why?
To: xl@youthlife.com
Cc:
Subject: A travel plan to Xi’an
Dear Xiao Li,
My time here in China is going well. I love my new school and classmates. Over the
October holiday, my parents and I are planning to go to Xi’an to see the Terracotta
Army. I’ve heard that it is an amazing sight, and I can’t wait to go. To me, the story of
the Terracotta Army is almost unbelievable. It’s amazing that there are more than 8,000
statues, and no one in modern times knew about them until the 1970s.
We’re also planning to visit several other places in Xi’an. My dad and I are both
looking forward to going to the Shaanxi History Museum, because my dad loves
history and I have heard that this museum is known as a “Chinese treasure house”!
We’re also going to the Xi’an City Wall and a few other famous sights.
We’re taking the train, leaving the day before the October holiday begins. We’re arriving at
9:30 a.m. and will start sightseeing right away, so I hope we sleep well on the train!
I guess that’s all for now! I’ll write again soon and send photos! Do you have any plans for
the coming holiday? Hope to hear from you soon.
Your friend,
richard
TERRACOTTA ARMY
Come and see the Terracotta Army: more than 8,000 statues were made in
the third century BCE to guard the tomb of the Chinese Emperor Qinshihuang!
Each statue has a different face, leading researchers to believe that each one
is a copy of a real soldier. The statues fill only one part of the emperor’s huge
tomb, which still has not been completely unearthed. More than 700,000
people worked for nearly 40 years to build this tomb. However, no one in
modern times knew about the tomb or the terracotta statues until 1974, when
some farmers discovered the tomb while they were digging a well!
30 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND

===== PAGE 37 =====
2 Study the organisation and language features.
1 Summarise the email in the table.
Paragraph Main idea Detail
1 main purpose for the trip
2 other plans for the trip
3 transport
4 final thoughts
2 Underline the words and phrases used to express emotion in the email. Then complete the
sentences below.
It is .
It is an amazing sight.
I’m amazed.
I can’t believe it.
... is almost unbelievable. It’s hard .
It’s an story.
3 Use the tables above to help you write a travel plan. Then follow the steps
below.
1 Pretend you are Xiao Li and reply to Richard’s email.
2 Exchange drafts. Assess each other’s work according to the checklist.
Is there a clear purpose for the trip?
Does each paragraph have a clear main idea?
Does the writer use the present continuous tense for future plans?
Does the writer use commas, stops, and question marks correctly?
Are all the words spelt correctly?
Are all the proper nouns capitalised?
3 Revise your draft according to your partner’s comments.
4 Put up your email in the classroom or read it to the class.
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 31

===== PAGE 38 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1 Complete the postcard with the correct forms of the words below.
destination sight pack credit detail amazing rent admire
Hi Paul,
Hello from our final —Neuschwanstein Castle! We arrived
in Europe about six days ago. I’m so glad that we a car.
The highways here are wonderful, and driving lets you see lots of
amazing . I’m also pleased I good walking
shoes, because we’ve walked A LOT in the last few days. I feel like
we drive for only a short time and then walk and walk and walk! Deutschland
I think what I most so far is the architecture. The
on the buildings here are so unusual, so different from
China. Of course, I’m also enjoying the shopping! I bought gifts for
all of my family and friends. I’m very glad my card works
here, so I don’t have to carry a lot of money. I hope I can come back
here some day and see all of these places again.
Your friend,
Meilin
2 Read the conversation and mark the phrases expressing future plans.
Paul: Hey Meilin. This is Paul, calling from the Old Town of Lijiang!
Meilin: Hi Paul! You are already in Lijiang?! Great to hear you! So what do you think of the Old
Town there?
Paul: Oh, we love it. You know, it is so different from big cities.
Meilin: Really? How long are you staying there?
Paul: About four days, since my dad has to go back to work next Monday. We arrived
yesterday and visited the Old Town. Tomorrow we’re going to Yulong Snow Mountain.
In order to save time, we’re taking the cable car up there. If we still have time, we’re
planning to see Blue Moon Valley and Yak Meadow.
Meilin: Sounds great! Oh, don’t forget it’s much colder on Snow Mountain. Be sure to keep
warm!
Paul: Thanks! We’re bringing sweaters and coats with us, so I hope we’ll be OK. I’ll see you in
a few days! Talk to you soon.
Role-play the conversation with a partner. Pay attention to your stress and intonation.
REFLECTING
My favourite part of this unit was because .
In this unit, I had a hard time with because .
I wish I could learn more about because .
Overall, I thought this unit was cool useful just OK difficult.
32 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND

===== PAGE 39 =====
* Project: Design a travel brochure
1 Read the posts and find out what each student’s reason is for travelling.
Hi everybody! I’m Fraser, and I’m from the UK. I’m going to visit China
this year because I’m very interested in China’s history and culture. I’m
going to see the Great Wall, but other than that, I’m not sure where to go.
Any ideas?
Hello! My name is Anthony. I’m from France. I want to go hiking in
China over the summer holiday. I love nature, and I really want to
see the beautiful sights there. The mountains, the sky, the lakes—
the photos I’ve seen of China’s countryside are wonderful.
Hi! My name is Anna, and I’m from Russia. I’ve just started my last year
of high school, and I want to visit a few universities or colleges in China,
since I hope to study there next year. I want to experience some Chinese
culture and see the natural beauty there, but my main goal is to find out
which university is the best for me to attend.
2 Work in groups. Research, plan, and design a tour.
1 Brainstorm different types of tours and add them to the list below.
Education History Adventure Culture Cuisine
2 Choose one person and a tour he/she might like. Work out a week-long travel plan for the tour.
Time Place Activity
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
3 Design a travel brochure for the tour. Make your brochure as attractive as possible.
UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND 33

===== PAGE 40 =====
* Video Time
Machu Picchu
Machu Picchu is an ancient city high up
in the Andes Mountains of Peru in South
America. It is very popular with tourists
and brings money into Peru.
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Complete the sentences with the words and phrases below. You may use a dictionary
to help you.
magnetic centre Inca civilisation outside world stalls business and money ruins
1 Machu Picchu was once part of the .
2 For many years, Machu Picchu was lost to the .
3 Machu Picchu is now made up of .
4 People believe that Machu Picchu is a(n) , attracting many tourists
each year.
5 Apart from being a magical place, Machu Picchu also brings a lot of to Peru.
6 Local people sell things at to tourists.
WHILE YOU WATCH
Choose the correct answers.
1 Another name for Machu Picchu is .
A Aguas Calientes B one of the magnetic centres of the ancient world
C the Lost City of the Inca
2 Machu Picchu was built .
A in 1911 B more than 500 years ago C 500 years ago
3 Some people worry that too many tourists going to Machu Picchu .
A will be bad for the environment B will be bad for business
C will be too noisy
4 The people in the town live completely .
A on the money from tourism B by selling art C by driving buses
5 Machu Picchu may be changed forever by .
A the weather B poverty C tourism
AFTER YOU WATCH
Work in groups. Discuss the questions.
1 Are there any places like Machu Picchu in China? In what ways are they alike?
2 Should tourism be stopped in places like Machu Picchu? Why or why not?
34 UNIT 2 TRAVELLING AROUND