===== PAGE 8 =====
  FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS UNIT 1
FESTIVALS AND 
CELEBRATIONS
Phoenix flutes make music, 
The moonlight flashes,
Fish and dragon lanterns 
whirl the whole night long. 
—Xin Qiji
1
UNIT 
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about festivals and celebrations around the world.
2  listen to different festival experiences and talk about 
     your own.
3  write a passage about a festival or a celebration you 
    have experienced.
4  explore the origins, customs, and meanings of different
    festivals.
    Look and discuss
1  What can you see in the photo?
2  What is the name of this festival and how 
    do you celebrate it?
1

===== PAGE 9 =====
Talk about festival activities 
1	 Before you listen, look at the photos below. Choose some words or phrases    
from the box to describe each festival. 
Listening and Speaking
2	 Listen and write the order of the conversations next to the names of the festivals 
above. Then match each conversation with the relationship between the speakers 
below.
To listen for a relationship,  you need to pay 
attention to how people talk to each other (e.g., 
friends usually call each other by first names) and 
some particular questions in the conversation 
(e.g., “Could I have the bill, please?” tells us that 
the speaker is a customer in a restaurant).
Listen for relationships
  a tour guide and members of a tour group
  an interviewer and an interviewee
  a reporter and a tourist
  two friends
Chinese Lantern Festival
Rio Carnival 
Coming-of-Age Day
wear traditional costumes	
dress up in carnival costumes	
visit a lantern fair
march along the streets	
receive congratulations from …	
guess riddles
attend the ceremony	
watch samba dance	
give performances
A
B
C
2
UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 10 =====
  
Pronunciation
1	 Listen and read aloud the words or phrases to your partner. Pay attention 
to the change in the pronunciation of the bold letters. 
1  duty, education	
2  use, usually	
3  news, newspaper	
4  is, issue
5  last year	
6  in bed	
7  those shirts	
8  as you see
Discuss the differences with your partner. Then listen and repeat.
2	 Listen to the following sentences, paying attention to the consonants in bold. 
How do their pronunciations change when they are read in the sentences?
1  Did you enjoy the holiday?
2  Miss, congratulations on becoming an adult!
3  It’ll be too tiring to walk or dance for a long time in those shoes.
4  I was hoping to hear that you had a great time throughout.
5  Children then take part in Easter egg hunts to find the eggs and win prizes.
6  In Mexico, the Day of the Dead is celebrated between October 31st and November 2nd.
4  Listen again and make a list of each festival’s activities.
  Chinese Lantern Festival: 
  Coming-of-Age Day: 
  Rio Carnival: 
3  Listen again and complete the sentences with the correct words. 
1	 In Conversation 1, the woman is wearing 
 colours. It took her a long time to do 
her hair and make-up, and to get 
. She is going to meet her 
 soon.
2	 In Conversation 2, Carla advises Li Mei to change her 
. This is because the 
weather is 
 and they will be outside for a long time. 
3	 In Conversation 3, the people are enjoying the 
 show.
5  In pairs, discuss which of these festivals attracts you the most and why. 
EXAMPLE
A:  I think the Rio Carnival would be the most exciting. After all, as you know, I love to dance!
B:  I love dancing, too, but I’m not sure I’d enjoy it in such hot weather.
A:  So which festival do you like best? 
B:  I like …
3
  UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 11 =====
Reading and Thinking 
Discover the reasons for festivals and celebrations
1	 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
Festivals are celebrated all around the world. They 
have a wide range of origins, such as the seasons 
of the year, religions, famous figures, and important 
events. Every festival has its different customs and 
unique charms. However, no matter how different 
they may seem, all over the world, the spirit of 
sharing joy, gratitude, love, or peace is common in 
all festivals. 
Of all the traditional festivals, the harvest festival 
can be found in almost every culture. This important 
agricultural festival takes place after all the crops 
have been gathered in. People celebrate to show 
that they are grateful for the year’s supply of food. 
In ancient Egypt, the harvest festival was celebrated 
during the springtime—the Egyptian harvest season. 
It featured a parade and a great feast with music, 
dancing, and sports. Today, in some European 
countries, people decorate churches and town 
halls with flowers and fruit, and get together to celebrate over a meal. During the 
Mid-Autumn Festival in China, families gather to admire the shining moon and enjoy 
delicious mooncakes.
Customs play a significant role in festivals, but sometimes they can change over time. 
With the development of modern society and the spread of new ideas, some traditions 
may fade away and others may be established. One example is the typical Chinese 
Spring Festival custom of lighting firecrackers to drive away the evil spirits and 
celebrate the new year. Nowadays, many big cities have given up this custom in order 
to avoid air pollution. Another example is Halloween, which slowly became an exciting 
festival for children, in spite of its religious origins.
1  What festivals do you celebrate with your family each year?
2  Why do you think people celebrate different festivals?
WHY DO WE CELEBRATE FESTIVALS?
2    Read the text and find out the answer to the question in the title.
4
UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 12 =====
3    Read the text again and underline the 
topic sentence of each paragraph that 
gives the main idea.
4	 In pairs, discuss the following questions.
1	 What do most festivals seem to have in common? Why do you think people around the 
world find these things important? 
2	 How do you feel about festival customs that have already faded away? 
3	 What is the writer’s attitude towards the commercialisation of festivals? 
5	 Complete the following passage using suitable words from the text. Be sure 
to use the correct forms. 
Festivals are becoming more and more 
commercial, with businesses taking 
advantage of the celebrations. Online 
shopping websites and social media 
apps have made it much easier for the 
public to spend more on gifts for their 
loved ones. Although some believe 
festivals should not be commercialised, 
others believe the increase in spending 
is good for the economy and public happiness.
Festivals are an important part of society. They reflect people’s wishes, beliefs, faiths, 
and attitudes towards life. They are occasions that allow us to relax and enjoy life, and 
forget about our work for a little while. They help us understand where we came from, 
who we are, and what to appreciate. And if you study festivals carefully, you may be 
surprised to find that different cultures actually have a lot in common after all. 
Identifying the main ideas of paragraphs 
is necessary when analysing a text. 
Most paragraphs will have a “topic 
sentence” that tells you the paragraph’s 
main idea. It is often the first sentence, 
but sometimes it is found elsewhere in 
the paragraph.
Identify the main idea of a 
paragraph
Today’s festivals have a wide 
 of origins, including the seasons of the year, famous 
, important events, and religions. The 
 festival is one of the most popular 
festivals and is celebrated in many cultures. Customs play a 
 role in festivals, but 
they can change over time. For example, some Chinese cities no longer allow firecrackers 
during the Spring Festival, as they can increase air pollution. These days, festivals are becoming 
more 
, with people spending more money on gifts. Festivals 
 people’s 
wishes, beliefs, faiths, and attitudes towards life. They are 
 to spend time with family, 
and to relax and enjoy life.
5
  UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 13 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
1	 Read the sentences below and discuss the functions and meanings of the 
italicised -ing form. Find more examples from the unit. 
	 These lanterns are amazing.
	 During the Mid-Autumn Festival in China, families gather to admire the shining moon and 
enjoy delicious mooncakes.
	 Families celebrating the Lunar New Year can enjoy exciting dragon dances and carnivals 
together.
Describe festival activities
3	 Complete the passage with the appropriate -ing form. 
La Tomatina is a festival that takes place in the Spanish 
town Buñol every August. I think many food festivals are 
 because people are just eating. However, this 
festival is 
 because people don’t actually eat 
the tomatoes. Instead, they throw them at each other! 
The number of people 
 part in this tomato fight 
can reach up to 20,000, and it is a very 
 fight 
that lasts for a whole hour. The 
 thing is how 
clean Buñol is after the tomatoes are washed away after 
the fight. This is because the juice from tomatoes is really 
good for making surfaces clean!
2	 Read the following messages posted by some exchange students on an Internet 
forum. Underline the -ing form used as the attribute or the predicative.
Discussion: Which festival is the best?
Rio Carnival! I spent a really fun day there with my friends. It was great 
fun walking along the streets, enjoying the relaxing atmosphere! The 
performances were just amazing.
The Spring Festival in China, especially the dinner on the Lunar New 
Year’s Eve! All family members get together. And I get lucky money in 
red envelopes from my parents and relatives, so it’s always an exciting 
time for me.
Perhaps Thanksgiving. What could be better? Families getting together 
and eating delicious food, people watching sports games on TV, friends 
laughing and talking, etc. Plus there’s Black Friday, if shopping is your 
thing.
I think it’s Christmas. I just can’t take my eyes off the shining lights 
on the Christmas trees everywhere. Lots of smiling faces, and people 
singing Christmas carols and wishing each other “Merry Christmas!”
Today 9:05 am
Today 9:11 am
Today 10:11 am
Today 10:24 am
Sunnyli
Vincent1119
Wizard_Oz
Cooper_08
6
UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 14 =====
Listening and Talking
Talk about festival experiences
3	 Read the conversation below and underline the phrases that express feelings 
about festivals. Role-play the conversation with your partner. 
Joe:	
Did you enjoy the holiday, Song Lin?
Song Lin: Oh yes, it was great, thanks! The food, the parades, and the beautiful fireworks—
it’s always exciting for me. It’s good to spend time with my family, too, although 
it can get a bit boring in my hometown after a while. How about you?
Joe:	
Well, this was my first Chinese New Year. I loved watching the traditional 
performances, and I was invited to lots of delicious meals. But, to be frank, the 
fireworks going off throughout the night were really annoying.
Song Lin:	 Oh, well, yes, I can see your point there! But it’s all part of the tradition to 
frighten away the evil spirits.
Joe:	
Yes, well, there seemed to be a lot of them in my area! Anyway, except for that, 
everything was fine. I’m really looking forward to the next festival.
4	 Share a recent festival experience with your partner and tell him/her how 
you felt about the festival and why.
Listening and Talking
1	 Song Lin and Max are talking about a recent festival experience. Listen to their 
conversation and answer the questions.
1  What festival is Max talking about?	
  
2  What did Max do during the festival?
3  What dishes did Max’s mother cook?
pumpkin pie
pudding
apple pie
roast turkey
mashed potatoes
4  What did Max and his family do during 
    and after the dinner?
5  What was the best part of the festival?
2	 Listen again and tick the phrases that Max or Song Lin uses.
 It was fantastic!	
 How wonderful!	
 How exciting! 
 That’s amazing.	
 It was great fun!	
 It’s very exciting.             
 It was great to …	
 I’m really happy that …	
 I’m pleased to ... 
Expressing feelings and emotions
7
  UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 15 =====
Reading for Writing 
Write about your festival experience
1    Read the diary entry and answer the questions.
Opening Paragraph:
State the topic 
(e.g., where, when, 
and with whom 
you celebrated the 
festival, and also 
your main feeling).
First Body 
Paragraph: 
Describe the start 
of the festival and 
the surroundings.
Second Body 
Paragraph: 
Describe in 
detail the festival 
activities.
Closing Paragraph:
Give a brief 
summary of the 
experience.
Third Body 
Paragraph:
Describe in detail 
the festival activities.
MY AMAZING NAADAM EXPERIENCE
I experienced the Naadam Festival in China’s Inner Mongolia 
Autonomous Region for the first time this year. The festival falls 
on the fourth day of the sixth month of the lunar calendar, usually 
lasting for three days. Naadam means “games” in Mongolian, 
and it is represented by three events: horse racing, wrestling, and 
archery, which are all so exciting to watch!
On the first day, I set off to the games early with my friend Burin. 
I saw a lot of people wearing fancy Mongolian robes. Some 
were feeding their horses, some were practising archery, and 
others were chatting or taking photographs. Burin told me that 
Mongolians travel every year from near and far to attend the 
festival, just as their ancestors had done for centuries.
After the opening ceremony and some amazing performances, 
the wrestling competition began. Mongolian wrestling is different 
from the wrestling in the Olympic Games. There are no rounds, 
and wrestlers are not separated by weight. The wrestler loses if 
any part of his body above his knee touches the ground. After 
singing some songs, the competitors danced onto the green field, 
waving their arms in the air as if they were eagles. I was quite 
moved by their show of strength and grace. 
I absolutely enjoyed the archery, too, but the horse races were 
my favourite part. However, I was surprised to see that the riders 
were boys and girls! I heard it is because children are lighter and 
the horses can run faster and farther. At first, I was a little worried 
about the children’s safety, but Burin said, “Don’t worry. They’ve 
been riding horses all their lives. They’ll be just fine.” That was the 
moment I started to understand why people say “Horses are at 
the heart of Mongolian culture”. ...
I’m finally back home now, feeling really tired, but celebrating 
Naadam with my friend was totally worth it. He invited me back for 
the winter to stay in a traditional Mongolian tent and eat hot pot. I 
can’t wait!
8

===== PAGE 16 =====
1   What does “Naadam” mean? Which events does it include? 
2   What Naadam Festival customs did you learn about? 
3   What in your opinion is the most impressive thing about the festival?
4   What else would you like to know about the festival and the writer’s experience?  
2	 Study the organisation and language features.
  This was my first time spending … and it was an enjoyable and exciting experience 
for me.
  I’ll never forget … because … 
  I’ll always … because …
1  Read the sentence patterns below and use them to rewrite the opening sentence of the article.
2  Underline the sentences that describe the writer’s feelings and emotions. 
4	 Put up your writing in your classroom or read it to the class.
3	 Use what you have learnt to write about a festival or a celebration you have 
experienced recently. 
3  Get your draft back and revise it. 
1  Make notes of your ideas in the table and then write your draft. 
Outline
Main idea of each paragraph
Details
Feelings
The name of the festival/celebration: 
1
2  Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner’s draft. 
  Is the writing well-organised?
  Is there an opening sentence in the first paragraph?
  Does each paragraph include the necessary details?
  Does the writer describe his/her feelings and emotions?
  Does the writer use the -ing form correctly in the writing?
  Are there any grammar, spelling, or punctuation errors?
4
A summary of my festival/
celebration experience
The topic and my feeling
2
How I prepared for the
festival/celebration
3
The festival/celebration 
activities
9
  UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 17 =====
2	 Circle the correct word in each sentence. 
1	 Taking part in the celebration was a satisfying/satisfied experience for us. 
2	 Most of the people were amazing/amazed by the lion dances during the new year 
celebrations. 
3	 The child seemed annoying/annoyed when he found his gift broken. 
4	 The man dressing/dressed in a ghost costume looks quite frightening/frightened. 
5	 Kate was surprising/surprised by the sight of the Kongming lanterns flying/flown up 
into the sky. 
  Which festival(s) mentioned in this unit was/were new to you?
  Which festival did you find the most interesting? Why?
  Do you wish to add one extra holiday in China? What would you like to celebrate? Why?
  Which part of this unit did you find the most difficult?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
1	 Fill in the blanks with the correct forms of the words in the box. 
1  The beautiful flowers on cherry branches are the most 
 sign of the arrival of spring. 
2  In December, many companies have 
 dress parties to celebrate the end of the year.
3  The female soldiers forming the biggest 
 group in the National Day parade 
attracted a lot of interest from the 
.
4  The most common colour you see during the Spring Festival is red because red 
 life, 
wealth, and good luck in Chinese culture.
5  The newly married couple received dozens of letters of 
 from their friends.
6  If you are the best man at a wedding, it is best to keep your speech simple and 
.
7  She will never forget the 
 when she saw all the audience clapping their hands and 
cheering after her performance.
8  Falling on the 9th day of the 9th 
 month, the Chongyang Festival is also called the 
Double Ninth Festival. It is a day for people in China to show respect to seniors.
9  To be frank, this 
 chicken tastes horrible.
march	
brief	
media	
congratulation	
significant
moment	
roast	
lunar	
represent	
fancy
Assessing Your Progress
REFLECTING 
10
UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 18 =====
In groups, choose one festival in China, research it, and then give a presentation 
to the class. Use the example outline below to help you.
Time:  On the third day of the third month of the 
             Chinese lunar year
Place:  In the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
              Region
Ethnic minority group:  The Zhuang people
Festival activities:  Sing songs, ...
Local festival food:  five-coloured sticky rice, 
duck in lemon sauce, ...
Facts about the Zhuang People’s Folk Song Festival
The Laba Festival usually occurs about a month before the Chinese Spring Festival. The 
festival’s traditional food is Laba porridge.
Possible ingredients and steps:
15 Chinese dates
5 peeled longan fruit
3 walnuts
1/2 cup of sticky rice
1/4 cup of millet
1/4 cup of peanuts
1/4 cup of red beans
1/4 cup of mung beans
1/4 cup of raisins
Wash the rice, 
millet, peanuts, red 
beans, and mung 
beans, and soak 
them in 2 cups of 
water overnight.
Put these ingredients 
and the dates into a pot. 
Pour in 6 cups of water, 
and bring the pot to a boil 
before simmering for one 
and a half hours over low 
heat.
Wash the raisins, 
walnuts, and longan 
fruit, and then put 
them into the pot 
with some sugar 
before simmering for 
another 30 minutes.
Turn off the 
heat and then 
wait for 10 
minutes before 
serving the 
porridge.
1
2
3
4
*Project 1: Give a presentation about a festival in China
*Project 2: Make a poster about festival food recipes
In groups, collect some festival food recipes. If possible, learn to cook the food at 
home and then make a poster with pictures for the class. Use the example below 
to help you.
11
  UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 

===== PAGE 19 =====
BEFORE YOU WATCH
	
How much do you know about the Lantern Festival? Look at the table below 
and try to fill in the blanks.
AFTER YOU WATCH
	
Work with a partner. Use the notes above to help you give a brief introduction 
to the Lantern Festival. 
* Video Time
The Lantern Festival
The Lantern Festival is one of the most 
important traditional festivals in China. The 
custom of joyfully celebrating the Lantern 
Festival began in ancient times and still has 
great influence on Chinese people today. 
WHILE YOU WATCH
 
	
Complete the table with the correct words.
Date
     • On the 
 day of the 
 month of the lunar year
     • The 
 day of the Chinese New Year celebrations
	
• The fire dragon dance in Puzhai Town in 
 Province has a
	
	 history of over 
 years.
	
• The Lantern Festival was known as the Chinese 
 Day in the
	
	 past. It was a good day for 
.
	
• Many ancient poets wrote poems about the festival, which describe  
	
	 happy 
 and also the stories of young 
.
Interesting 
events in 
history 
1  Looking at lanterns  
     • Places to see the lanterns:  
     • Most cities will 
.
2  Guessing riddles
Riddles are often written 
.
3  Eating yuanxiao or tangyuan
     • Different fillings are stuffed into balls of sticky 
.
     • The 
 symbolises reunion, harmony, and 
. 
Festival
activities
12
UNIT 1 FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS 
