===== PAGE 20 =====
  MORALS AND VIRTUES UNIT 2
2
UNIT 
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about a compassionate doctor, Lin Qiaozhi.
2  listen to discussions about moral dilemmas and 
    the power of kindness and talk about the virtues
    that we cherish.
3  write a review of a moral fable.
4  explore the importance of moral values and virtues.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you think the teenagers are doing?
2  Can you list some virtues that are admired 
    in every culture? 
13
The best portion of a good man’s life is his 
little, nameless, unremembered acts of 
kindness and of love.
—William Wordsworth
MORALS AND 
VIRTUES  

===== PAGE 21 =====
Listening and Speaking
Talk about moral dilemmas
1	 Before you listen, look at the definition and the picture below. Then discuss 
the questions with your group.
2	 Listen to the conversation and complete the table to describe the moral 
dilemma that Jane is talking about.
3	 Listen again and decide whether the statements 
are true (T) or false (F).
A moral dilemma 
is a situation in 
which you have 
two or more 
difficult choices 
to make. If you 
choose one, 
you might get in 
trouble for not 
choosing the 
other(s).
1   What moral dilemma is the boy in the picture facing? 
2   Have you ever faced a moral dilemma or heard of someone who did? Describe it.
The girl’s 
choices
Situation
Possible 
results
or
She can 
.
She can 
.
The girl is taking the entrance examination for 
 in 
Beijing. During the exam, the student next to her fainted.
, but 
.
, but 
.
Listen for attitudes
When you listen, you should pay 
attention not only to the words 
but also to HOW the speaker is 
talking. If people strongly disagree 
with something, they might 
exaggerate their intonation. If you 
hear people speaking very quickly 
or loudly, they may be excited or 
angry. If they speak slowly or stop 
often, they may be confused or not 
sure about what they are saying.
1   Jane is eager to share the magazine article
     with Luke.
2   Luke doubts that young people face moral
     dilemmas all the time.
3   Jane admires what the girl in the story did.
4   Luke doesn’t believe anybody would do what
     the girl in the story did.
5   Jane wonders how the girl became a doctor
     later.
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
14
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 22 =====
4	 Listen to the conversation carefully and answer the questions.
5	 Think about what you would do if you were ever faced with the same situation 
as the girl. Then share your thoughts with your group, and explain the reasons 
for your choice.
EXAMPLE
A:	 If I were ever in a situation like the girl faced, I think I would choose to …
B:	 Why? Are you sure?
A:	 Because I think that … is most important. What about you?
B:	 I think I would …
1   What did the girl do to help the student?
2   What was the girl’s name? What was she famous for?
3   What did Jane say about the girl’s life?
  
Pronunciation
1	 Listen to the conversations and match each rising intonation with its 
meaning. 
1	 A: You know Angela?	
	
B:  Yes.
2	 A: You volunteer at the local shelter,
	
    don’t you?
	
B: Yes. It’s a great experience.
3	 A: Did you hear that James helped an old woman who fell down while crossing 
	
   the street?
	
B: Yes. It was a bit  dangerous, but he got all the cars to stop.
2	 Read the conversation and mark  in the correct places. Then listen to 
the recording to check. Notice the meaning of each rising intonation.
A	 Having more to say.
B	 Hoping the other person will
	
continue to talk.
C	 Asking for confirmation.
Peter:	
It’s a nice day, isn’t it?
Nick:	
Yes, but it looks gloomy to me.
Peter:	
Why? What happened?
Nick:	
You know Tony?
Peter:	
Yes.
Nick:	
He asked me to write an essay for him. But I don’t think it’s the right thing to 
	
do. Do you?
Peter:	
No, it’s not.
Nick:	
But I’m afraid to lose him as a friend.
Peter:	
Well, good friends should help each other. But it doesn’t mean you should 
	
help him cheat! Why not help him with his schoolwork?
Nick:	
Good idea!
15
  UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 23 =====
Reading and Thinking
Learn to make choices in life
1	 Before you read, think about this question and share your ideas with your 
partner: What are some important life choices? 
2	 Read the text about Lin Qiaozhi and then answer the following questions.
“Life is precious. … To a person nothing is more 
precious than their life, and if they entrust me 
with that life, how could I refuse that trust, 
saying I’m cold, hungry, or tired?” These words of 
Dr Lin Qiaozhi give us a look into the heart of this 
amazing woman, and what carried her through a 
life of hard choices.
As a five-year-old girl, Lin Qiaozhi was deeply 
affected by her mother’s death. At age 18, instead 
of following the traditional path of marriage like 
the majority of girls, she chose to study medicine. 
“Why should girls learn so much? Finding a good 
husband should be their final goal!” her brother 
complained, thinking of the high tuition fees. 
She responded, “I’d rather stay single to study all 
my life!” 
Eight years later, Lin graduated from Peking 
Union Medical College (PUMC) with the Wenhai 
Scholarship, the highest prize given to graduates. She immediately became the first woman 
ever to be hired as a resident physician in the OB-GYN department of the PUMC Hospital. 
Within six months, she was named a chief resident physician, a position that usually took four 
years to achieve. After working for a few years, she was sent to study in Europe and then, in 
1939, in the US. She greatly impressed her American colleagues, who invited her to stay. Dr 
Lin, however, rejected the offer. She wanted to serve the women and children at home. 
In 1941, Dr Lin became the first Chinese woman ever to be appointed director of the OB-GYN 
department of the PUMC Hospital, but just a few months later, the department was closed 
because of the war. Thinking of all the people still in need of help, Dr Lin opened a private 
clinic. She charged very low fees to treat patients and often reduced costs for poor patients. 
At times she was even seen riding a donkey to faraway villages to provide medical care.
1	 What hard choices was Dr Lin faced with throughout her life? Underline the sentences about 
these choices. 
2	 What were the results of her choices?
3	 What does the author want to illustrate by mentioning Dr Lin’s life choices?
Lin Qiaozhi (1901—1983)
16
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 24 =====
3	 Read the text again and answer the questions. 
Use the facts and details from the text to support 
your conclusions.
1	 What was the main principle guiding Dr Lin through the 
choices in her life?
2	 What kind of person do you think Dr Lin was?
Draw conclusions
As you read, pay attention to 
facts and details mentioned 
by the author, and put them 
together to draw conclusions 
about the topic.
The new People’s Republic of China saw Dr Lin Qiaozhi playing a key role. In 1954, she was 
elected to the first National People’s Congress and, over the next several decades, she held 
many important positions. Her heart, however, was elsewhere. She was more interested in 
tending patients, publishing medical research on care for women and children, and training 
the next generation of doctors. “The OB-GYN department cares for two lives,” she told new 
staff in her department. “As doctors, we should 
be responsible for the patients and treat them as 
our sisters.”
Though Lin Qiaozhi never married, she was known 
as the “mother of ten thousand babies”, having 
delivered over 50,000 babies in her lifetime. Dr 
Lin did not retire until the day she died, 22 April 
1983. Since she had no children of her own, she 
left her savings to a kindergarten and a fund for 
new doctors. And even as she lay dying, her final 
thoughts were for others. “I’m ready to go,” she 
said. “Don’t try to rescue me any more. Don’t 
waste the medicine any more.” 
4	 Complete the following sentences using suitable verbs from the text. Be sure 
to use the correct forms.
1	 Many studies have shown that shy, passive children tend to be socially 
 by 	
	
	
their classmates.
2	 She was so scared during the interview that she completely forgot how she should 
	
 to the questions.
3	 Many Americans 
 about the sharp increase in the cost of health care and
	
health insurance recently.
4   One of the advantages of 
 energetic and positive young people is that they 
	
 to show interest in their work and they are eager to learn.
5	 The student union will hold a special meeting in January to 
 someone to 
	
replace the secretary. 
17
  UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 25 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
 
Describe people’s actions
1	 Read the sentences below and discuss the function and meaning of each -ing 
form. Then find more examples from the unit.
1   … her brother complained, thinking of the high tuition fees.
2   Thinking of all the people still in need of help, Dr Lin opened a private clinic.
3   The new People’s Republic of China saw Dr Lin Qiaozhi playing a key role.
3	 Read the following story and rewrite the underlined parts using the -ing form. 
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the verbs in the box. 
feel       want       face       smile       return       worry       hear       knock
1   
 that his wife had been injured in an accident, Mr Johnson hurried to the hospital. 
2   During the operation, she sat in the waiting room for over an hour 
 about him.  
3   I saw her whispering something into his ear, obviously not 
 to be heard.  
4   He suddenly woke up at midnight when he heard someone 
 at his door.
5   
 higher import and export costs, the company is looking for ways to survive.
6   
 from the North Pole, the traveller wrote a book about his experience and had
     it published the following year.
7   The child lay on her mother’s lap, 
 sweetly. 
8   
 hurt by the rejection, she bit her lip and quietly walked away.
Henry Norman Bethune was a Canadian doctor with a very 
creative mind and a determination to help people. As a small 
boy, he became very interested in medicine and decided to 
become a doctor. After he graduated from medical college 
in 1916, Bethune worked as a doctor in England, the 
US, and Canada. He reinvented or redesigned over 10 
medical instruments to make them more useful. In 
1938, Bethune left for China, after he heard that many 
people were dying in the war. Despite the difficult 
situation, Dr Bethune did whatever he could to assist 
the Chinese people. He helped to organise hospitals, 
taught doctors and nurses, and showed people how to 
give first aid. Sadly, Dr Bethune passed away in November 
the following year and was buried in Shijiazhuang. After Dr 
Bethune’s death, Chairman Mao Zedong wrote an article in 
memory of him, in which he praised Dr Bethune as a hero to 
be remembered in China. 
18
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 26 =====
Listening and Talking
Talk about the importance of kindness
Listening and Talking
1	 Listen to a radio show and answer these questions.
1   What is the name of the radio show?
2   What does “paying it forward” mean?
3   What does the guest want the listeners to do?
2	 Listen to the radio show again and fill in the blanks to complete the story. 
I’m sure you’ve heard the famous country music song “Chain of Love”. The song starts with 
a man who helps a lady whose car 
. The lady wants to pay him, but he won’t 
accept payment, instead telling the lady to just 
 to another person. Later, 
when the lady stops at a café, she notices her waitress is pregnant and 
. When 
the lady finishes eating, she pays for her meal with a 
. Then the lady walks 
out, 
 the change and a note for the waitress. Her note tells the waitress to 
continue the chain of kindness. The song has a 
 ending. The waitress goes 
home to her 
, happy because of the kindness the lady showed her. Finally we 
find out that he is the man who first 
 the chain of kindness!
Tell a story
When telling a story, you can start by 
saying what the story is about. Give the 
background to the listeners, including 
when and where it took place. Say what 
happened step by step and be sure to 
use correct tenses. Do not forget to use 
sequencing words or linking words. 
Finally, finish your story by saying why it is 
important to you or why you remember it.
3	 Think of a story of showing or receiving kindness, either your own story or one 
that you have heard of. Then share it with your group. Here are some words and 
expressions that may help you. 
 
 I remember this happened when I was … 
 I was on my way to … 
 I was sitting … when …
 It was a … day/morning … 
 There were … on the street …
once upon a time      long ago
first of all      then          after that
later	
         finally        so
however        although      but
Telling a story
19
  UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 27 =====
Reading for Writing
Share your opinions about a moral story
The Stone in the Road
Once upon a time there was a king who often thought, “Nothing good can come to a 
nation whose people only complain and expect others to solve their problems.” One 
day, he had an idea.
Early one morning, the king disguised himself and went to a local village. He placed 
a large stone in the middle of the main street and hid gold coins under the stone. 
Then he hid behind a huge maple tree and watched.
The first person down the street was a milkman with his cart. He crashed into the 
stone, spilling the milk everywhere. “What fool put this stone here?” he shouted. He 
picked himself up and angrily went away.
After a while, a group of women came along, each balancing a pot of water on her 
head. One woman tripped over the stone and her water pot went crashing to the 
ground. She picked herself up and limped away in tears. Neither she nor her friends 
thought about moving the stone out of the road.
The king watched all day as many people complained about the stone, but he found 
nobody making an attempt to move it. The king was in despair. “Is there no one in 
this village who feels any responsibility to keep their neighbours from harm?”
Just then, the king saw a young girl coming along. She was the daughter of a local 
farmer. She had been working all day and was very tired. But when she saw the 
stone, she said to herself, “This stone is a danger to anyone who comes down the 
street after dark. I’ll move it out of the way.”
The girl pushed the stone with all her might. After a great deal of effort, she 
finally succeeded in moving it to the side of the street. Imagine her surprise when 
she saw the gold coins where the stone had been!
Just then, the king stepped out from behind the tree. “Oh sir,” the girl said, “does 
this gold belong to you? If not, we surely must find the owner, for he will certainly 
miss it.”
The king said, “My dear, the gold is mine. I put it in the road and moved the stone 
over it. Now the gold is yours, because you are the only person who has learnt the 
lesson I wanted to teach my people.” 
1	 Read the fable below and answer the questions.
1	 What was the king’s idea for teaching an important lesson to his people?
2	 What was the response from most of the people?
3	 What did the young girl think and do when she saw the coins?
20
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 28 =====
2	 This story presented different people’s emotions and responses when they came 
across the same problem. Complete the table according to the story.
Person
Experience
Emotion
Response
milkman
crashed into the stone
angry
went away
woman with water
other villagers
young girl
3	 Work in pairs. Discuss the questions.
Write a review
The main purpose of a review 
is to give your opinion about a 
piece of writing. You should first 
give a short description of the 
writing, and then clearly state 
your opinion and your reasons.
1   What do you think this fable is trying to tell us? Do you
	
think the king was wise? Why or why not?
2   Can you think of times in your own life when you felt 
     and acted like the girl or like the other people in the 
     story? Give examples.
4	 Write a review of the fable. Use the outline below to help you.
Paragraph 1: 
Basic information 
about the story
•  What is the title of the story?
•  What kind of story is it? 
•  What is the main idea of the story?
Paragraph 2: 
Your analysis of 
the story
•  What is the author’s purpose?
•  Were the details of the story clear?
•  Do you think the story achieved its purpose?
Paragraph 3: 
Your opinion about 
the story
•  What did you like about the story?
•  What did you not like about the story?
•  Would you recommend this story to others?
5	 Exchange drafts. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner’s draft. 
  Does the writer give a short description of the story? 
  Does the description include the most important details of the story? 
  Does the writer give his/her opinion about the characters or their actions? 
  Is the review well-organised? 
  Does the writer use the -ing form as the adverbial in the review?
  Are there any grammar, spelling, or punctuation errors? 
6	 Get your draft back and revise it. Then put your review up in the classroom.
21
  UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 29 =====
Assessing Your Progress
2	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words below. Then 
answer the question: What is the author’s attitude towards the doctors?
clinic     complain     majority     staff    response    harm    physician
According to a recent survey, the 
 of doctors believed their incomes did not match 
how hard they worked. The survey found that about 50 percent of the doctors were not 
satisfied with their working conditions, especially those from hospitals in small towns.
A 
 working in a large public hospital often has to see 100 patients per day. The 
researchers conducting the survey concluded that if hospitals and 
 serving the 
general public received more support, it would help to keep their medical 
 from 
leaving the profession, and therefore the public would continue to receive good health services.
In 
 to a question about tensions between doctors and patients, some respondents 
 that misleading media reports about doctors have greatly 
 society, causing 
the public to distrust medical workers. 
1	 Circle the correct word in each sentence. 
1	 Jack stood in front of the class, completely forgetting/forgotten every word that he had 
prepared for his speech.
2	 Seeing/Seen the tennis star leaving the court, the girl quickly picked up her camera and 
ran over to him.
3	 They were very proud to see their son awarded/awarding the university scholarship. 
4	 When asking/asked about their work schedules, many people preferred more flexible 
work hours. 
5	 John watched the woman talking/talked to the air, thinking/thought that she might be 
crazy. 
6	 Impressed/Impressing with her fluent English, the manager offered Julie a job interview.
  My favourite story of this unit was 
 because 
.
  After studying this unit, I think 
 is/are the most important of all virtues. 
  I found it 
 to understand and use the grammar structures in this unit. 
  I had some problems with 
.
  I would like to learn more about 
.
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting 
 thought-provoking 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
22
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 30 =====
1	 In groups, brainstorm more virtues to add to the list below. Then discuss which of 
these virtues are most needed in our society today.
integrity
cooperation
 courage
friendliness
forgiveness
generosity 
honesty
 loyalty
patriotism
thankfulness
2	 Make a poster to explain what virtue it is and to motivate people to practise it. 
Divide up the work among your group members.
1	 Collect sayings or quotations about the virtue.
2	 Analyse the sayings and group them in a logical way.
3	 Look for or draw a picture to illustrate the virtue.
Thankfulness is realising and appreciating what you have.
Be thankful, because you have more than others!
  If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself. (Indian proverb)
  I had no shoes and complained, until I met a man who had no feet. (Indian proverb)
Be thankful, because you have been given much!
  If you can read this, thank a teacher. (Anonymous)
  When eating fruit, think of the person who planted the tree. (Asian proverb)
Be thankful, because it will shape your whole life!
  Be thankful for what you have; you’ll end up having more. If you concentrate on
  what you don’t have, you will never, ever have enough. (Oprah Winfrey)
*Project: Make a poster to motivate others to practise virtues
23
  UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 

===== PAGE 31 =====
WHILE YOU WATCH
      1   Check your answers in Before You Watch. 
      2   Circle the correct words to complete the sentences below.
1	 Confucian thought is still greatly valued in China and in other East/Southeast Asian countries.
2	 If students really understood Confucian ideas, it could change society/their lives.
3	 In English, only a few/many different words can be used to translate Confucius’s highest 
moral principle.
4	 Mencius/Zigong explained this principle as “loving one’s parents, loving people, loving 
everything in the world”.
5	 Confucius taught Zigong that the one single concept to take as a guide for all actions in 
life is happiness/fairness.
AFTER YOU WATCH
      Work in groups. Discuss the questions.
1	 In what ways do you think Confucian thought still influences education and society in China?
2	 Do you think that your life would change if you understood and practised ren every day?
3	 How would the Confucian idea of fairness change society around you if everybody started 
practising fairness in everything?
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Complete each sentence with your best guess.
1	 The teachings of Confucius have been an important part of Chinese culture for more than 
 years.
2	 His teachings are all about the most basic 
 of life.
3	 Confucius thought that 
 was the most important moral principle.
4	 According to Confucius, this highest principle begins with love for 
.
5	 Confucius said, “Whatever you don’t like done to yourself, don’t 
.”
* Video Time
The teachings of Confucius, one of the most 
respected teachers of ancient China, are still 
known and studied around the world today. 
Confucius identified the concept ren as the most 
important principle in life, a principle which is still 
relevant in modern society.
Confucius and Ren
24
UNIT 2 MORALS AND VIRTUES 
