===== PAGE 32 =====
  DIVERSE CULTURES UNIT 3
3
UNIT 
DIVERSE
CULTURES
    In this unit, you will 
1  read a travel journal about San Francisco and 
discover its Chinatown.
2  listen to an interview about American food and 
talk about Chinese ethnic minority cultures. 
3  write a cultural introduction to your city or town.
4  explore the diverse cultures of the world.
    Look and discuss
1  Where do you think this photo was taken?
2  What can you see in the photo? How 
would you describe it?
The beauty of the world lies 
in the diversity of its people.
—Unknown
25

===== PAGE 33 =====
Listening and Speaking
Talk about the origins of American food
1	 Look at the photos of American food and match them with their names. Then 
guess which countries’ cuisine influenced the food’s invention.
2  Listen to a radio interview about American food and check whether your 
answers to Activity 1 are correct.
3	 Listen to the interview again and decide whether the statements are true (T) 
or false (F).
1	 No food was ever invented in America.
2	 Hamburgers were invented in Germany.
3	 Nachos were invented for Americans by a foreigner.
4	 Every Chinese restaurant in America has fortune cookies.
5	 American cooking often mixes things from around the world to make 
something completely new.
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
 hamburger	
 fortune cookie	
 gumbo	
 nachos
A
C
B
D
26
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 34 =====
4	 Listen to the interview 
again and complete the 
notes below.
  
Pronunciation
1  Listen to the passage about Native Americans. Mark the pauses that you 
hear. The first sentence has been done for you.
2  Listen again and repeat.
No one really knows exactly | when the first people arrived | in what we now know as 
California. || It is likely that Native Americans moved to California at least fifteen thousand 
years ago. Scientists believe that these settlers crossed the Bering Strait by a land 
bridge which existed in prehistoric times. In the 16th century, the native people suffered 
greatly after the arrival of the Europeans. Thousands of them were killed or forced into 
slavery. In addition, many died from the diseases brought by the Europeans. However, 
some survived these terrible times, and today there are more Native Americans living in 
California than in any other state of America.
Names of food
Notes
Hamburger
•  mix of 
 + 
 cultures
Fortune cookie
Nachos
•  
 chips covered in cheese
•  made by 
 cook for 
Gumbo
•  invented in 
 about 
 yrs ago
•  a piece of 
 with 
 on it inside cookie
•  spicy stew
•  invented in N.O. about 
 yrs ago
•  mixes 
, 
, 
, + Spanish cooking
When taking notes, just write down the key words, such as names, 
dates, and numbers. They will help you remember things later 
on. To save time and space, omit all articles (a, an, the) and use 
abbreviations. For example, use “N.O.” for New Orleans, “bc” for 
because, “yrs” for years, “+” for and, and so on.
Take notes
5	 Imagine you are invited to a potluck dinner at an American friend’s house. Work 
in pairs and discuss what special dish(es) you will take. The following questions 
may help you.
1	 What food/snack from which area/ethnic group will you bring?
2	 How is the food prepared and what is it made of?
3	 How is this food special?
27
  UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 35 =====
Today was my first day back in San Francisco after camping in the Redwood Forest and 
visiting the wine country of Napa Valley. I have to admit that it definitely feels good to be back 
in the city again. And what a city—a city that was able to rebuild itself after the earthquake that 
occurred in 1906. There are so many beautiful old buildings—many sitting on top of big hills, 
offering great views of the city, the ocean, and the Golden Gate Bridge.
My hotel is near downtown, in the Mission District, one 
of the oldest parts of the city. Many of the people living 
here are from Mexico or Central America. This district 
used to be a poor area of town, but is now a centre for 
art, music, and food. In fact, an art movement called 
the “Mission School” started here. It’s influenced by 
graffiti art and comic art. I walked around looking at the 
street art for a few hours. It was quite modern and lively. 
Afterwards, I ate some delicious Mexican-Chinese 
noodles from a food truck. A real mix of cultures here!
In the afternoon, I headed to a local museum that showed the 
historical changes in California. I learnt that America got California 
from Mexico in 1848. In the same year, gold was discovered 
near San Francisco, which started a gold rush. Over 300,000 
people came from all over the world to seek their fortune, and 
San Francisco quickly became a big city. Many Chinese arrived 
during this period. To earn a living, some opened up shops and 
restaurants in Chinatown. Many others found jobs on farms, joined 
the gold rush, or went to build the railway that joined California to 
the eastern region of the country. The museum did a really good 
job of showing how America was built by immigrants from different countries and cultures. 
When these immigrants left their countries, they carried a bit of home in their hearts, and built a 
new home here.
Wednesday, 21 June
Reading and Thinking 
Learn about a city that has diverse cultures
1	 Find San Francisco on 
the map and discuss this 
question in groups: What 
do you know and want to 
know about the city?
2	 Scan Li Lan’s travel 
journal and find out the 
places that she has been 
to or plans to visit.
28
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 36 =====
4	 Answer the questions using information from the travel journal. 
1 What impressed the writer first about San Francisco?
2 What is so special about the Mission District?
3 Why did Chinese immigrants go to San Francisco?
4 What examples of ethnic diversity can you find in the journal?
3	 Read the travel journal again and complete the timeline of Li Lanʼs trip.  
Morning
Afternoon
Evening
Tomorrow
Classify and organise information
We can better understand a passage by classifying 
or organising the information in it. Classifying 
means deciding the kind of information, e.g., dates, 
numbers, opinions. Organising means putting things 
in order, e.g., according to how old, how much, what 
kind. Sometimes it is a good idea to draw a diagram 
to organise the information in the passage.
Before coming to San Francisco
6	 Complete the following sentences using words from the travel journal. Be 
sure to use the correct forms.
1 Over 3,000 lives were claimed in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and the series of 
fires that 
 after it. More than 80% of the city was destroyed, including much of 
the 
 area. One area that was hit the hardest was the Mission 
.
2 Yunnan Province is 
 one of the most diverse provinces that I have ever been to. 
Apart from being the kingdom of flowers, it is home to many ethnic minority groups. After 
visiting the southern part of Yunnan, I have to 
 that it is the best 
 of 
China to escape the cold winter.
5	 Discuss these questions in groups.
1 Have you ever been to a place that has a diverse culture? What do you think brought about 
the cultural diversity? 
2 What are the benefits and challenges of cultural diversity?
This evening, I went to Chinatown. There were so many good cafés and restaurants to choose from. 
I selected a Cantonese restaurant that served its food on beautiful china plates. What great food!
That’s enough for today. Tomorrow evening, I’m going to a jazz bar in the Richmond District. Can’t wait!
29
  UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 37 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
Understand the use of ellipsis in English
30
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 
3	 Read the conversation. Find out which words have been left out.
Justin:	 Linlin, I’m going to Guizhou Province next month. I’m super excited! Any 
recommendations for places to visit? 
Linlin:	 Wow, cool! Guizhou is a province with a lot of cultural diversity. Places to visit … well, 
definitely the Huangguoshu Waterfall first. 
Justin:	 What’s special about the waterfall? 
Linlin:	 Well, have you ever heard of the Chinese novel Journey to the West? 
Justin:	 Yes, I have. Why? 
Linlin:	 In the back of the waterfall, you will find a cave, which is the home of the Monkey King. 
Justin:	 Really? Cool! I’ll definitely check it out. 
Linlin:	 And I strongly recommend the ethnic minority villages. You’ll find Chinese culture is 
much more diverse than you thought. 
Justin:	 Sounds great, thanks! 
1	 Read the following sentences and find the words that have been omitted to 
avoid repetition.
1	 A: Oh, I just love nachos! Mexican corn chips covered in cheese!
  	 B: Me, too.
2	 A: So it’s the food of many different cultures, all in one dish?
  	 B: Exactly.
3	 A real mix of cultures here!
4	 Can’t wait! 
2	 Rewrite the sentences by taking out the unnecessary parts.
1	 You mean you are planning a trip across the Atlantic for a holiday? It sounds like a good 
idea. 
2	 He tried to solve his financial problems, but he couldn’t solve the problems.
3	 If it is necessary, I’ll finish my report on American poetry as soon as it is possible.
4	 Are you going to dress like that? Wearing a dress might be better than wearing jeans and 
boots. 
5	 Some wild mushrooms are poisonous and some are not poisonous.
6	 I really like that paper folding book, and my son likes that paper folding book, too.
30

===== PAGE 38 =====
Listening and Talking
Talk about ethnic minority cultures in China
1	 Look at the photos below and guess what ethnic minority groups might be 
talked about.
2	 Justin met a new friend while travelling in Guizhou. Listen to their conversation 
and complete the summaries below.
Part 1
Justin and 
 watched some 
 people play the 
. The 
instrument has a history of over 
 years and it is even mentioned in the oldest 
collection of Chinese poetry. Then they watched the 
. Justin wanted to buy 
some hand-made 
 accessories as souvenirs. He was told that the price will 
depend on the percentage of 
.
Part 2 
They will go to a pretty 
 village called 
. They will see the 
 and the 
. They may also see a performance of 
.
3	 Work in groups. Imagine Justin is telling some friends about his trip to 
Guizhou. One of you is Justin and the rest of you are his friends. Ask Justin 
questions about his trip and experience. The following expressions may help 
you.
Exactly!	
You’re right!	
I see.	
I know what you mean.
No way!	
You’re kidding!	
Really?	
I can’t believe it!
Great!/Super!	
That’s interesting.	
Wow!	
Tell me about it!
Showing you are listening
31
  UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 39 =====
Reading for Writing 
Describe a place with distinctive cultural identity
1	 Read the introduction to the Chinatown in San Francisco and answer the 
questions.
1	
What are the famous tourist sites in the Chinatown of San Francisco?
2	
What else can you do there?
The Chinatown in San Francisco is the biggest in America, and also the oldest. It is a 
very popular tourist draw that receives more visitors each year than even the Golden 
Gate Bridge. The climate is mild all year round, meaning it is always a good time to visit.
Historically, Chinese immigrants settled in the area during the railroad construction and 
gold rush period. What started as a residential area for Chinese immigrants then turned 
into a centre for Chinese culture. The majority of residents in Chinatown are still ethnic 
Chinese, many of whom do not speak English fluently. This allows visitors to experience 
a real taste of China.
Most of Chinatown was destroyed in 
the 1906 earthquake, but the city and 
residents rebuilt it, taking care to include 
lots of Chinese architecture. Traditionally, 
visitors enter Chinatown through the 
legendary Dragon Gate, which was built 
using materials donated from China. Other 
famous sites include the Tin How Temple 
and Bank of Canton, to name but a few. 
Visitors can also spend hours just exploring the interesting sights, smells, and sounds 
of China. Portsmouth Square is also a key site, being the centre of Chinatown. It has a 
long and famous history, with the author Robert Louis Stevenson having spent much 
time writing there. These days, the square is a great place to see traditional Chinese 
culture in real life, such as games of Chinese chess, and people practising tai chi.
The stores in the Chinatown offer a unique range of souvenirs, goods, and clothing. All 
kinds of traditional Chinese herbal medicine can be found, too, and there are Chinese 
tea stores, where visitors can taste and buy varieties of Chinese tea.
But perhaps what many tourists and San Franciscans treasure most about Chinatown 
is its food. There is Chinese food to suit everyone’s taste, with traditional dishes from all 
over China.
Chinatowns are an important part of the diverse culture of the USA. They allow visitors 
who have never been to China to experience traditional Chinese culture first hand.
WELCOME TO CHINATOWN!
32
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 40 =====
4	 Put up your introduction in your classroom or read it to the class.
2 	 Study the organisation and language features.
 location
 climate
 history
 population
 ethnic groups
 languages
 famous figures
 legends/stories
 famous food/drink
 tourist attractions
 businesses and 
industries
 other names for 
the city/town
1	 What information is included in the introduction? Tick the items that are mentioned.
2  Underline the sentences that are used to describe the items above.
4	 Get your draft back and revise it.
3	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner’s draft.
  Is the city/town introduction clear?
  Is the information specific and are the facts correct?
  Does the city/town introduction contain all the important information?
  Is the information arranged in a good order?
  Does the passage have a proper beginning and conclusion?
  Are there any grammar, spelling, or punctuation errors?
3 	 Use what you have learnt to write an introduction to your city/town.
1	 In groups, brainstorm as much information as possible about your city/town and its culture. 
Then write an outline of your introduction.
2	 Write an introduction to your city/town. The following phrases and expressions may help you.
  is located in/on	
 has a history of … years
  is divided up into	
 has a population of
  is … in size	
 is home to ... ethnic groups
  the most popular/greatest/largest	
 popular festivals/foods/tourist sights
                                                            include ...
33
  UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 41 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1	 Complete the following sentences using the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 Simplify the underlined sentences using ellipsis. Then role-play the 
conversation. Pay attention to how ellipsis is used.
A:	 Weʼve got to write a paper on music in the US. Do you have any ideas about what kinds of 
music are popular there? I only know hip-hop seems popular.
B:	 Yeah. Hip-hop is generally popular in the US, but different parts of the country listen to 
different types of music.
A:	 Can you give an example of this?
B:	 Well, for example, in southern US, they have their own culture.
A:	 So, do you mean they have something like a subculture?
B:	 Right. The history in that region has given them a different identity.
A:	 Country music is popular there, right?
B:	 Well. Not only is country music popular in the south, but blues, rock and roll, bluegrass, 
and jazz are popular in the south as well.
A:	 Ah, of course they are popular!  I forgot about New Orleans jazz!
  What did you learn about cultural diversity in this unit?
  What else would you like to know about different cultures around the world?
  What was the most interesting thing that you learnt in this unit?
  What problems did you have in learning this unit?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
admit    claim    diverse    downtown    fold    mild   
mission    occur    select    settle    suit    super
1	 The population of this district is quite 
, with immigrants from many countries 
 here.
2	 When Columbus landed in the New World, he 
 the land for Spain.
3	 The famous bar street is located in the 
 area of the city. A large number of 
restaurants and cafés have opened along the street since 2000. 
4	 I don’t think a man’s main 
 in life is to earn as much money as possible. My dream 
is to live a more meaningful life. 
5	 It was confirmed that a 
 earthquake 
 at 6:37 p.m. on Saturday evening in 
Hebei Province, causing no damage. 
6	 She really did a 
 job. I must 
 that she is the best designer I have ever met.
7	 We have a range of gifts to 
 all tastes, and we also have a programme that can 
make it quicker and easier for you to 
 from our products.
8	 He arranged all the books in a neat row and then put his 
 clothes away. 
REFLECTING 
34
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 42 =====
3	 Present your travel brochure to the class. Then vote on which trip your class 
would like to take.
1	 In groups, discuss these questions.
1  How long will the travellers stay in China?
2  What kind of activities will they be interested in?
3  Which provinces or cities should be introduced? What cultures are these places famous for? 
4  What attractions do these places have?
Imagine you are working in a Chinese travel agency and you are supposed to create a 
travel brochure for foreign travellers so that they can experience diverse cultures in 
China.
2	 Search online for more information and then write out your travel brochure. 
Use the information from this unit and the example below to help you.
*Project: Create a travel brochure
New cultures, new experiences
Welcome to the United States, one of the most culturally diverse countries in the world!
Here, you can visit historical attractions and learn more about the cultural traditions of 
different ethnic groups.
African Americans
Tennessee: Visit the National Civil 
Rights Museum to listen to first-hand 
accounts of life before the American Civil 
War. 
Louisiana: Explore Tremé, New 
Orleans, the oldest African American 
neighbourhood in the United States, 
and enjoy amazing performances in the 
hometown of jazz music.
Asian Americans
California: 
•  Explore the oldest Chinatown in North 
America, one of the most popular tourist 
attractions in the city of San Francisco.
•  Take a boat ride to Angel Island and visit 
the state park to find out more about the 
experiences of the first Asian immigrants 
to the United States.
Native Americans
Washington: Make a trip down to the 
National Museum of the American 
Indian, the first national museum that 
showcases Native American heritage.
New Mexico: Learn more about Native 
American arts, crafts and traditions 
by participating in the Gathering of 
Nations, the largest gathering in North 
America with representatives from 
hundreds of tribes.
35
  UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 

===== PAGE 43 =====
Queens is a neighbourhood in the city of New York. 
It claims to be one of the most diverse places in the 
world. With almost half of the population born in 
another country, it is a great example of a melting 
pot.
World’s Biggest Melting Pot
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Match each word or phrase with the correct definition. You may use a dictionary 
to help you.
1   global village	
 the fact of belonging to a particular race
2   multiculturalism	
 without a set plan or pattern
3   resident	
 used to describe a world where everything is connected
4   ethnicity	
 someone who lives in a place
5   cherish	
 a place where people of different backgrounds live together
6   Hispanic	
 accepting and including people from different cultures
7   random	
 treat with care and love
8   melting pot	
 a person whose first language is Spanish, especially one 
from Latin America living in the US
WHILE YOU WATCH
Complete the sentences with the correct words.
1   The residents of Queens come from 
 different nations.
2   Almost 
 different languages are spoken in Queens.
3   The family of one woman who was interviewed has been Puerto Rican for more than
	
 generations.
4   A 2001 study measured diversity based on how likely it is for 
 randomly 
     selected people to have different backgrounds.
5   This survey can prove that Queens is the 
 place in the US.          
AFTER YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	 Do you think it would be easy to live in Queens if you were an immigrant? Why or why not?
2	 Do you think China is a diverse country? Why or why not?
* Video Time
36
UNIT 3 DIVERSE CULTURES 
