===== PAGE 44 =====
  SPACE EXPLORATION UNIT 4
4
UNIT 
SPACE
EXPLORATION
Mystery creates wonder and 
wonder is the basis of man’s 
desire to understand.
—Neil Armstrong
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about the development and value of space 
    exploration.
2  listen to two interviews with astronauts and learn 
    to talk about astronauts’ life in space.
3  write an argumentative essay about the value of 
    space exploration.
4  explore the mysteries of the universe and the 
    achievements in space exploration.
    Look and discuss
1  What can you see in the photo? Who do 
    you think took the photo?
2  What do you know about the history and 
    development of space exploration?
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
1  You are going to listen to an interview with an astronaut. Before you listen, discuss 
the questions in groups. 
Talk about how to become an astronaut
Number questions are typically related 
to: time, telephone numbers, addresses, 
prices, weights, distances, etc. When 
you listen for numbers, you need to pay 
special attention to big numbers as 
well as those that sound quite similar, 
such as thirteen and thirty,  fourteen 
and forty, etc. 
Listen for numbers
1  Can you name any famous astronauts from China or abroad?
2  Do you know anything about the selection procedure for astronauts? Make a list of the 
possible requirements.
Listening and Speaking
2	 Listen to the interview and tick the correct statements.
  1  The audience is curious about how Yang Liwei became the first Chinese astronaut.
  2  Mr Yang always believed that he would become an astronaut one day.
  3  Mr Yang was selected to attend pilot training with 13 other people.
  4  To become an astronaut in China, you have to have 1,350 hours of flying experience.
  5  Astronauts not only had to learn how to use space equipment, but also had to do a lot 
of mental and physical training.
3  Listen again and fill in the blanks with the correct numbers. 
1	 Yang Liwei graduated from college at the age of 
. 
2	 Before joining China’s space programme, Mr Yang 
trained as a fighter pilot for about 
 years. 
3	 Mr Yang was one of the 
 pilots who were 
chosen to train for space flights. 
4	 At the time when Mr Yang entered the space 
programme, astronauts had to be shorter than 
cm in height and less than 
kg in 
weight. 
5	 Mr Yang became China’s first astronaut when he 
was 
 years old. 
38
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 46 =====
4  Listen to the interview again and make a list of the requirements for becoming an 
astronaut. 
  
Pronunciation
         
One day, Isaac Newton sat                     Not only apples, but all of us
And saw an apple fall.                             Stay still though Earth spins round.”
Then he thought, “It’s not just fruit!          Of course, we know that this is true!
Something pulls us all.”                           Earth goes round but we stay still.
“There is a force,” he said to himself,       What goes up must come down,
“That pulls things to the ground,              And it always will.
1   Read the poem. Mark the stressed syllables with  and unstressed syllables with . 
     Then try reading the poem to each other with rhythm.
Gravity
2    Listen and repeat after the recording. Check whether your mark-ups are correct. 
  Education background:
  Experience:
  Health condition:
  Courses:
  Special training:
5  Work in pairs. Discuss whether you would like to be an astronaut in the future and 
give your reasons. Use what you have learnt from the interview to help you.
EXAMPLE
A:  You know, I think being an astronaut would be cool.
B:  Do you want to work in space in the future? 
A:  I’m not sure, but I think it might be too difficult for me. There are so many requirements. 
	
First of all, you must be intelligent enough to get a related college degree. Then you 
	
have to ... 
B:  So what might be the most difficult part for you? 
A:  I guess it might be the ...
39
  UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 47 =====
1	 Before you read, look at the title and the photos. Discuss these questions in pairs.
Learn about the development of space exploration
1   What do you think are the main reasons for space exploration?  
2   What do you expect to read about in this text?
“Are we alone? What’s out there?” Looking up at the stars, people have always wanted 
to learn more about space, and scientists work hard to find answers. They make 
vehicles to carry brave people into space to find out the secrets of the universe. 
Before the mid-20th century, most people felt travelling into space was an impossible 
dream. However, some scientists were determined to help humans realise their dream to 
explore space. 
 On 4 October 1957, 
the Sputnik 1 satellite was launched by the USSR and successfully orbited around 
Earth. Afterwards, the USSR focused on sending people into space, and on 12 April 
1961, Yuri Gagarin became the first person in the 
world to go into space. Over eight years later, on 
20 July 1969, American astronaut Neil Armstrong 
stepped onto the moon, famously saying, “That’s 
one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for 
mankind.” Following this, many more goals were 
achieved. For example, America’s NASA space 
agency launched Voyager 1 on 5 September 1977 
to study deep space, and it still transmits data 
today.
 
All the astronauts on the USSR’s Soyuz 11 and 
America’s Challenger died during their missions. 
SPACE: THE FINAL FRONTIER
Reading and Thinking 
A   Although scientists try to make sure nothing 
goes wrong, accidents can still happen.
B   They also really wish to discover other planets 
that are suitable enough to support life.
C   The future of space exploration remains bright.
D   After many experiments, they succeeded in 
making rockets that could escape Earth’s 
gravity.
When the main idea is not clearly 
stated in a topic sentence, you 
should read the full paragraph 
or passage carefully and find 
the words or ideas that repeat 
themselves. They are likely 
evidence of the author's main idea.
Summarise the main idea
2	 Read the text. Several sentences have been removed from it. Choose the 
correct sentence (A–D) to fill each gap. 
Apollo 11 Moon Landing
40
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 48 =====
3  Use your own words to summarise the main idea for each paragraph.
4  What does the title “Space: The Final Frontier” mean to you? Share your ideas 
with the whole class. 
5  Complete the passage with words from the text.
M
 is exploring space in the hope of finding out more about the u
. However, 
exploring space is both dangerous and challenging. One of the most dangerous parts 
of space exploration is helping people to escape Earth’s g
. If there is a mistake 
during the l
, it can lead to an accident that kills everyone on b
. Getting out 
of o
 and back to Earth’s surface is also very dangerous. Despite the huge risks 
though, people will always continue to explore this final f
 so as to learn its secrets.
These disasters made everyone sad and disappointed, but the desire 
to explore the universe never died. This is because people believe in 
the importance of carrying on space exploration despite the huge risks. 
An example of this ongoing work is the International Space Station. 
It orbits Earth and has astronauts from different countries on board, 
providing a continuous human presence in space.
China’s space programme started later than those of Russia and the 
US, but it has made great progress in a short time. China became 
the third country in the world to independently send humans into 
space in 2003, when Yang Liwei successfully orbited Earth in the 
Shenzhou 5 spacecraft. Then Shenzhou 6 and 7 completed a second 
manned orbit and the first Chinese spacewalk, followed by the vehicle 
Jade Rabbit being sent to the moon to study its surface. After that, 
China launched the Tiangong 2 space lab into space and Tianzhou 
1 to dock with it. This signalled one step further in Chinaʼs plan to 
establish a space station in the future. More recently, China has sent 
Chang’e 4 to explore the surface of the far side of the moon to make 
measurements and observations.
 Europe, the US, and China all have 
plans to further study and explore planets like Mars and Jupiter. Despite the difficulties, 
scientists hope future discoveries will not only enable us to understand how the universe 
began, but also help us survive well into the future.
Paragraph 1: 
Paragraph 2: 
Paragraph 3: 
Paragraph 4: 
Paragraph 5: 
Jade Rabbit
Challenger after 
the accident
41
  UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 49 =====
Describe space facts and efforts to explore space
1    Look at the following sentences and focus on the italicised infinitives. In pairs, 
      discuss their functions and meanings. Find more examples from the unit.
 
1   I trained for a long time to fly airplanes as a fighter pilot.
2   As we all know, an astronaut needs to be healthy and calm in order to work in space.
3   First of all, you must be intelligent enough to get a related college degree. 
4   Some scientists were determined to help humans realise their dream to explore space.
5   On 12 April 1961, Yuri Gagarin became the first person in the world to go into space. 
Discovering Useful Structures
 2  Rewrite the sentences using infinitives or “in order to/so as to + do”. Change the 
italicised parts accordingly. 
1  In 2003 Yuri Malenchenko became the first person who got married in space. →
	
In 2003 Yuri Malenchenko became the first person to get married in space.
2  In space, astronauts collect all dirty water so that it can be recycled for later use. →
	
In space, astronauts collect all dirty water so as to recycle it for later use.
3  Mankind has always been curious about the universe and many people have dreamt that 
one day they would fly into space.
	
4  Astronauts’ bones and muscles can get very weak in space due to the lack of gravity, so 
they need to exercise every day, which will help them stay healthy.
	
5  Astronauts have to use tape to stick everything down while working in space because 
everything would float off otherwise.
	
6  During a spacewalk, astronauts have to move slowly so that they can keep their bodies 
under control.
	
3	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the verbs in brackets. 
 
Sending people to other planets or even beyond the solar system is not an easy goal 
 
(achieve). One of the problems is that the trip would take a very long time. For example, 
 (use) current technology, it would take over two years 
 (get) to the closest 
planet, Mars, and back. Although light is the fastest thing 
 (know) in the universe, it 
could take more than four years to reach the nearest star system. Will scientists figure out a way 
 (store) sufficient food and water for the long journey? Is it possible to travel faster 
than light? No one knows the answers yet. However, space scientists never give up. They are 
experimenting with growing crops in space so as 
 (help) astronauts get enough food 
on longer journeys through space. 
42
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION

===== PAGE 50 =====
Talk about life in space
1  Before you listen, look at the pictures below and guess whether they would be useful 
for astronauts in space. 
 
3	 Work in groups. Imagine you are going to a space camp and Captain Brown has 
been invited to give a talk. Discuss the questions you would like to ask him and 
then make a list. 
EXAMPLE
A:	Hey, guys. We’re going to meet a real astronaut. Isn’t it exciting? 
B:	Yeah. I can’t wait to see Captain Brown! I’m really curious about his life in space. I have 
plenty of questions to ask him.
C:	Such as? 
B:	Oh, such as what facilities do they have in space to support their daily life?
C:	That sounds like a good question. But I’d also like to know about how astronauts sleep. 
What do they do so as not to float around while they sleep?
 
Listening and Talking
2  Max is interviewing Captain Brown about his life in space. Listen to the interview 
and answer the questions. 
1  What did Captain Brown usually wear inside the station?	
2  How did he prepare his food in space?	
3  How did he keep himself clean in space? 
4  How did he spend most of his time in space?
5  What did he do during his free time? 
6  What did he look forward to most during his stay in space?
 
soap                              towel                                 guitar                           shower               
microwave                           pen                             tape                             tissue
Expressing curiosity
 I’d love to know …	
 I wonder how/what/why/…
 Well, I’d really like to find out …	
 I’d particularly like to know …
 I’m most curious about …	
 I’m most interested to discover …
 I’m very keen to know …	
 I wish to know …
 I hope you won’t mind me asking about …
43
  UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 51 =====
Present an argument about space exploration
Reading for Writing 
1  Read the argumentative essay about space exploration and answer the questions. 
 
IS EXPLORING SPACE 
A WASTE OF TIME AND MONEY?
Countries around the globe are spending billions 
of dollars and lots of time on various space 
missions, whether to Mars or other planets 
much further away. Some people argue that we 
should stop wasting time and money exploring 
space. Instead, we should feed the worldʼs poor 
and find immediate solutions to other problems, 
such as pollution and fatal diseases. However, 
others feel this is a shallow view which fails to 
realise how exploring space helps us.
Firstly, exploring space has already made a 
difference in the fight against world hunger. It 
has directly resulted in the many satellites that 
now orbit Earth. A number of the satellites 
record data on land and weather patterns. 
Then the data is transmitted to scientists on 
Earth. After careful analysis, the scientists 
can provide useful recommendations and 
advice for farmers. As a result, space-based 
science has helped farming in its efforts to 
grow enough food to feed Earthʼs increasing 
population.
Secondly, space exploration has already 
promoted technological improvements that 
benefit us all. High-end products around the 
world are made to a higher standard now 
because of advanced technology which was first 
created to meet the requirements for space 
exploration. For example, space technologies 
have helped the research and development of 
different types of new material. They have also 
helped companies make better heart monitors 
and other machines that doctors regularly use. 
Today, space technologies are widely used in 
all kinds of industries, and everyday products, 
such as memory foam pillows and smartphone 
cameras, are changing our lives.
Finally, sending astronauts into space has helped 
people to think about the worldʼs problems and 
even to find ways to solve them. Seeing pictures 
of our planet as an island in a black sea made 
people realise that our planetʼs resources are 
limited. In order to provide for such a rapidly 
increasing population, scientists are trying to 
find other planets that could one day be our new 
home. The greatest attention at present is on 
Mars because it is closer to Earth. In the future, 
humans may live on both planets.
In closing, exploring space provides the world 
with many different benefits. Therefore, it 
should continue so as to provide new and better 
solutions to peopleʼs short-term and long-term 
problems.
satellite image of a typhoon
44
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 52 =====
1   Why are some people against space exploration? 
2   What has space exploration done for food production? 
3   What did the pictures of Earth from space make people realise? 
4   How does space exploration benefit the products that people use nowadays?
2	 Study the organisation and language features.
 
1   Read the first paragraph and underline the different opinions about space exploration.
2   Find the three topic sentences that summarise the writer’s arguments about space 
exploration.
3   Underline the sentence that repeats the writer’s opinion in the last paragraph.
4	 Present your essay to the rest of the class.
 
1   Are these arguments for or against exploring space? Put them in the table below. Then add 
your own ideas and write your essay.
A	 There are a lot of unsolved mysteries on Earth. So why are we going into space to 
explore? 
B	 It is necessary to find a new home for people in space, as the resources on Earth will 
run out.
C	 I cannot understand spending all this money on expensive research and experiments 
when so many people need food.
D	 Exploring space encourages scientists to improve technology that can help people in 
other ways, too.
3  Use what you have learnt to write about your opinion about space exploration.
 
For space exploration
Against space exploration
2   Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner’s draft.
  Does the introduction state the topic?
  Does the introduction express different opinions about the topic?
  Does the body give arguments with suitable supporting information?
  Does the closing express the writer’s opinion and end properly?
  Are there any grammar, spelling, or punctuation errors?
3   Get your draft back and revise it.
45
  UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 53 =====
1	 Read the passage about Lee’s work in space and fill in the blanks with the 
words and phrases in the box.
agency	
astronaut	
data	
determined
intelligent	
satellite	
figure out	
result in
Lee was busy at work. Unlike most people around the world though, his workplace was in 
space. There was a problem with a(n) 
. It was supposed to send information about 
the sun back to the 
 on Earth, but the equipment for sending the 
 was not 
working properly. So it was Lee’s mission to 
 the problem and solve it.
Lee was very 
 as a(n) 
, and he was also very careful. He was 
 to 
make the satellite work properly again, but he would make sure to be safe. He knew that one 
small mistake could 
 death.
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.
send    survive    prevent    reach    breathe    step    land    sleep    use    help
1	 After having succeeded in 
  satellites into space, people wanted to know if it was 
safe for a human to go into space. On 3 November 1957, a dog named Laika became the 
first living thing 
 space. She was also the first one to die there.
2	 The USSR and the US both wanted to be the first to send a person to the moon. Later, 
the US succeeded, and Neil Armstrong became the first man 
 onto the moon.     
During the first moon landing, astronauts had no vehicles 
, so they had to     
explore the moon on foot. On the fourth mission 
 on the moon, astronauts took     
a lunar vehicle so that they could explore places further away.
3	 Astronauts must wear spacesuits when they work in space because there is no air     
 and it can be very cold outside the spacecraft. While 
 , they must attach 
themselves to something so as 
 floating around.
4  The accident on the Apollo 13 spacecraft resulted in a loss of oxygen, water, and electrical     
power. The astronauts on board had to fight 
. At the same time, Houston’s     
Mission Control worked hard 
 the astronauts return to Earth safely.
  What do you think is the most interesting part of an astronaut’s life? Why?
  What new information did you learn from this unit?
  Do you find it easier to use English to express curiosity now?
  Do you feel more confident about writing an argumentative essay in English now? 
    Why or why not?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 inspiring  
 interesting  
 so-so  
 difficult.
Assessing Your Progress
REFLECTING 
46
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 54 =====
4	 Show your slide presentation to the whole class.
3	 Prepare a slide presentation using the information you have found.
2	 Get into groups. Each group will be assigned several missions. Prepare for the 
presentation by finding out more details.
 
  Pictures	
  Interesting stories	
  Outcomes
  News reports	
  Videos
1	 Search online or in the library for information about Chinaʼs achievements in 
space exploration, especially the important technological breakthroughs and 
space missions. Organise the information into a table like the one below.
 
China’s Space Missions
Missions
Launch
Time
Launch
Vehicles
Astronauts
Mission Goals
Shenzhou 1
Shenzhou 2
Shenzhou 3
Shenzhou 4
Shenzhou 5
Shenzhou 6
Shenzhou 7
Tiangong 1
Shenzhou 8
Shenzhou 9
Shenzhou 10
Tiangong 2
Shenzhou 11
Tianzhou 1
...
*Project: Give a presentation on China’s space exploration
47
  UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 

===== PAGE 55 =====
AFTER YOU WATCH
Work in pairs. One student acts as a space expert and the other acts as a 
reporter. Use what you have learnt from the video to make up an interview.
1	 Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun and the smallest planet in the 
solar system.
2	 It is one of the few planets that we can see with the naked eye.
3	 Like Earth, Mars has volcanoes, valleys, polar ice caps, seasons, and 
weather.
4	 Olympus Mons, the largest volcano on Mars, is about twice as high as 
Mount Qomolangma.
BEFORE YOU WATCH
How much do you know about Mars? Read the statements below and decide 
whether they are true (T) or false (F).
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
* Video Time
Mars is truly a fascinating planet for people on 
Earth. Although exploring the Red Planet has 
never been easy, scientists are determined to 
continue their explorations.
Exploring Mars
WHILE YOU WATCH
2	 Put the events in the correct order.
   The probe separates from the launch vehicle.
   The lander lands on the surface of Mars.
   The probe enters the Earth-Mars transfer orbit.
   Controllers on Earth guide the probe into the orbit around Mars.
   The lander discards the protective shield and the parachute. 
   The space-to-ground communications link is created.
   The orbiter and the lander separate.
   The rover transmits data back to Earth and receives orders from Earth.
   The rover begins to explore the surface of Mars.
1
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
48
UNIT 4 SPACE EXPLORATION 
