===== PAGE 56 =====
  THE VALUE OF MONEY UNIT 5
5
UNIT 
THE VALUE 
OF MONEY
Money is a good servant 
and a bad master.
—Francis Bacon  
    In this unit, you will 
1  read excerpts from the script of The Million 
    Pound Bank Note.
2  listen to a news report and watch a film clip
    about people's attitudes towards money.
3  write a scene for a play.
4  read more about how people feel about money
    and its impact. 
    Look and discuss
1  What does Francis Bacon’s saying mean? 
    Do you agree with him?
2  What is the man holding in his hand? 
3  What do you think this film is about?
49

===== PAGE 57 =====
Listening and Speaking
Listening and Speaking
Discuss the good deed of returning lost money
1  Before you listen, discuss these questions in pairs.
Sometimes things are not said 
directly. However, you can make 
logical guesses on the basis 
of what the speakers say. To 
draw a conclusion, you need to 
understand the given information 
and use your background 
knowledge. Also, while listening, 
donʼt ignore the speakersʼ tone 
and intonation—these can be 
important clues, too.
Make inferences
1	 What do people have to buy in order to lead a good life?
2	 What can people not buy with money?
3	 Is money the basis of a happy life? Why or why not?
3  Listen again and put these events in the correct order.
  Chen Liyan found Wang Zheng’s money and returned it to him.
  Chen gave an interview to the local newspaper.
  Wang built a website to help raise funds for Liu Xia.
  Ma Dongbao shared Chen’s story with Wang.
  Chen spent all her savings and took out a large loan.
  Wang offered Chen 5,000 yuan.
5	 Discuss your answers to the questions with your 
partner and explain your reasoning.
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
1   It was the first time Chen Liyan’s story was reported.
2   Chen found 10,000 yuan in a small plastic bag in Taiyuan railway station.
3   Wang Zheng apologised to Chen because he couldn’t offer her more 
money.
4   Chen took out a large loan to cure her daughter.
5   Wang set up a fundraising website for Chen’s daughter after Chen told 
him about her situation.
4	 Listen again and decide if the following statements are true (T) or false (F).
2  Listen to the news report and match the people with the correct information.
1	 Chen Liyan
2	 Wang Zheng
3	 Ma Dongbao
4	 Liu Xia
A	 the owner of the lost money
B	 a cleaner at Taiyuan railway station
C	 a police officer living in Chen’s apartment building
D	 Chen’s 16-year-old daughter
1   What kind of person do you think Chen Liyan is?
2   Did Chen return the money because she didn’t need it?
3   Is it common for people to do what Chen did? 
4   How did Wang Zheng feel about the return of his money? 
5   Why did Ma Dongbao tell Wang about Chen’s family? 
6   How did the news reporter feel about Chen’s actions?
50
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 58 =====
  
Pronunciation
6  Work in groups of four. Discuss the following questions.
1  Listen to the short conversation and mark the intonation with  ,  or 
 . Then discuss with a partner what they intend to convey by using 
different intonation. 
Owner:	
You know what? It’s a million-pound bank note.
Waiter 1:	Really?
Waiter 2:	Really!
Waiter 3:	Really?!
2  Listen to the conversations. Underline the parts that are stressed and 
mark the intonation. Then talk about the implied meanings of the 
responses with different intonations. Listen again and repeat.
1  Henry:  It’s a nice suit.
    Owner: Oh, it’s perfect!
2  Henry:  Well, that’s very kind of you.
    Owner: Kind, sir? No, it’s kind of you. 
You must come whenever you 
want and have whatever you 
like. Just having you sit here is 
a great honour!
3  Henry:       Well, to be honest, I have none.
    Oliver:       (happily) What luck! Brother, what 
luck!
    Henry:       Well, it may seem lucky to you 
but not to me! If this is your idea 
of some kind of joke, I don’t think 
it’s very funny. Now if you’ll excuse 
me, I ought to be on my way.
    Roderick: Please don’t go …
EXAMPLE
A:	 What kind of person do you think Chen Liyan is?
B: I think she must be an honest person because …
A: I bet she’s really determined too. You can tell this by how …
1   Do you agree with Chen Liyan? What would you do if you were in her situation?
2   When we help someone, should we expect to get something in return?
3   What do you think is the best way to get money?
4   Should we judge people based on how much money they have?
EXAMPLE
A:	 I think that Chen Liyan did the right thing by returning the money and refusing to take 
a single cent from Wang Zheng.
B:	 Well, I think that Chen Liyan was correct in returning the money, but she should have 
accepted the money Wang offered.
51
  UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 59 =====
Reading and Thinking
Read about a bet between two wealthy men
1  What would you do if you had a million-pound bank note? Discuss the question 
in pairs.
2  Read the scene and answer the questions.
Narrator:	 Two rich brothers, Roderick and Oliver, 
have made a bet. Oliver believes that 
with a million-pound bank note a man 
could live a month in London. His 
brother Roderick doubts it. They see a 
poor young man walking outside their 
house. It is Henry Adams.
Roderick:	 Young man, would you step inside a 
moment, please?
Henry:	
Who? Me, sir?
Roderick:	 Yes, you.
Servant:	
(opening a door) Good morning, sir. 
Would you please come in? 
(Henry enters the house.) 
Roderick:	 How do you do, Mr ... er ...?
Henry:	
Adams. Henry Adams.
Oliver:	
Come and sit down, Mr Adams. 
Henry:	
Thank you.
Roderick:	 You’re an American?
Henry:	
That’s right, from San Francisco.
Roderick:	 May we ask what you’re doing in this 
country and what your plans are?
Henry:	
Well, I can’t say that I have any plans. 
As a matter of fact, I landed in Britain by 
accident.
Oliver:	
How is that possible?
Henry:	
Well, I had my own boat. About a month 
ago, I was sailing, and towards night 
I found myself carried out to sea by a 
strong wind. The next morning I was 
spotted by a ship.
Oliver:	
And it was the ship that brought you to 
England.
Henry:	
Yes. I went to the American consulate to 
seek help, but ... Anyway, I didn’t dare 
to try again. (The brothers smile at each 
other.)
Roderick:	 Well, you mustn’t worry about that. It’s 
an advantage.
Henry:	
I’m afraid I don’t quite follow you, sir. 
Roderick:	 Tell us, what sort of work did you do in 
America?
Henry:	
I worked for a mining company. Could you 
offer me work here?
Roderick:	 Patience. If you don’t mind, may I ask you 
how much money you have?
Henry:	
Well, to be honest, I have none.
Oliver:	
(happily) What luck! Brother, what luck!
Henry:	
Well, it may seem lucky to you but not 
to me! If this is your idea of some kind 
of joke, I don’t think it’s very funny. Now 
if you’ll excuse me, I ought to be on my 
way.
Roderick:	 Please don’t go. You mustn’t think we 
don’t care about you. Oliver, give him the 
letter.
Oliver:	
Yes, I was about to go get the letter. Wait! 
(getting it from a desk and giving it to 
Henry) The letter.
Henry:	
(taking it carefully) For me?
Roderick:	 For you. (Henry starts to open it.) Oh, no, 
you’d better not open it. You can’t open it 
until two o’clock.
Henry:	
Oh, this is silly.
Roderick:	 Not silly. There’s money in it. 
Henry:	
Oh, no. I don’t want your charity. I just 
want a job that earns an honest income.
Roderick:	 We know you’re hard-working. That’s why 
we’ve given you the letter. (to the servant)
Show Mr Adams out.
Henry:	
Well, why don’t you explain what this is all 
about?
Roderick:	 You’ll soon know. In exactly an hour and a 
half.
Servant:	
This way, sir.
Roderick:	 Not until 2 o’clock. Promise?
Henry:	
Promise. Goodbye.
THE MILLION POUND BANK NOTE
ACT 1, SCENE 3
52
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 60 =====
1   What bet did Roderick and Oliver make?
2   How did Henry come to England?
3   How does Henry want the brothers to help him?
4   Why do you think Henry does not want the brothersʼ charity?
5   Why do you think the brothers chose Henry for their bet?
3  Read these sentences and describe Henry’s feelings using suitable adjectives.
1   Who? Me, sir?
2   Well, I can’t say that I have any plans. As a matter of fact, I landed in Britain by accident.
3   I’m afraid I don’t quite follow you, sir.
4   Well, it may seem lucky to you but not to me! If this is your idea of some kind of joke, I 
     don’t think it’s very funny.
5   Well, why don’t you explain what this is all about?
4  Explain what the speakers mean by saying 
these sentences.
1	 I went to the American consulate to seek help, but 
... Anyway, I didn’t dare to try again.
2	 You mustn’t worry about that. It’s an advantage.
3	 What luck! Brother, what luck!
4	 Oh, this is silly.
Some sentences have an implied 
meaning which is not clearly stated. 
This implied meaning often indicates 
people’s feelings, attitudes, or motives. 
You can find this implied meaning 
by looking at the context. You have 
to read between the lines because 
the real messages are often hidden 
beneath the literal meaning.
Understand implied meaning
The two gentlemen had been having a heated 
argument for a couple of days, and had decided 
to make a 
 which would settle their 
argument. They were going to find someone 
to take part in their bet when they saw Henry 
walking on the street outside. They invited him 
into their house, where Henry told them he had 
landed in Britain by 
. Although he had 
gone to the American consulate to 
 
help, he had not received any. Henry hoped that 
the brothers would offer him some 
 
of work because he had no money. Henry got 
upset with the brothers when they seemed too happy about his bad luck. They quickly 
told him not to feel that way and they gave him an envelope with money in it. They said the 
letter inside would explain what it was all about, but he had to postpone opening it until 2 
o’clock. Henry felt that was odd. The 
 ended with Henry leaving their house and 
promising that he would not open the letter until 2 o’clock.
5  Complete the passage with words from Act 1, Scene 3.
6  Listen to Act 1, Scene 3 and role-play it with your partners.
53
  UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 61 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
Express modality and talk about future events in the past
1  Modal verbs have many functions, including the following (A–F). Find modal 
verbs in previous sections and discuss their functions.
A  necessity        B  possibility      C  obligation      D  request      E  advice      F  intention
2  Read the passage and fill in the blanks with suitable modal verbs in the box.
	
may	
must	
can	
ought to	
might	
had better	
would	
should
In the film The Million Pound Bank Note, Henry Adams is stuck in a foreign country without 
money and friends, and with nowhere to stay. While this situation 
 seem unusual, 
it can sometimes happen to travellers. In case it happens to you on a trip abroad, what 
 you do? First, and most importantly, you 
 stay calm. Fear 
 
cause you to become confused. You need to think clearly. Second, you should go to your 
nearest consulate. They 
 be able to help to some extent. Third, you 
 do 
well to check with some local charities. They 
 offer help to travellers in need. Fourth, 
you 
 avoid getting into trouble. You 
 think that stealing some money or 
food would help you, but you should not do so. Getting caught 
 ruin your life.
1	 Philip bought two tickets for The Phantom of the Opera. He 
 (watch) this musical 
with his girlfriend on the weekend.
2	 I was so surprised at the news that David 
 (play) the role of the dinosaur in the play 
that I gave him a hug out of joy.
3	 Lily decided that she 
 (settle) in New York and pursue her dream of becoming an actress.
4	 Hey, Timmy. I 
 (call) you. But now that you are here, I don’t have to.
5	 The competition was so close that no one was sure who 
 (win) the Best Actor award.
6	 Jim is not here right now. He said he 
 (be) on duty at the library this afternoon.
3  Both “would do” and “was/were going to do” can be used to talk about future 
events or intentions in the past. Complete the following sentences that 
describe the future using either form of the given verbs.
4  Work in pairs. Discuss the scene from The Million Pound Bank Note on page 52 
and share your understanding of the story. Use modal verbs when necessary. 
The example below may help you.
EXAMPLE
A:	 I think it’s kind of Roderick and Oliver to give Henry the money.
B:	 I’m afraid I disagree. They shouldn’t be making a bet on him.
A:	 But Henry might get into trouble if they didn’t offer him the money.
B:	 Well, if they really wanted to help Henry, they could offer him a job.
A:	 Maybe you’re right. But I guess that would be a different story ...
54
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 62 =====
Viewing and Talking
Describe people's changing attitudes in a film clip
1	 You are going to watch part of the film The Million Pound Bank Note. Look at 
these photos and guess what happens in the film.
2	 Watch the film clip and check if you are correct. Then discuss the questions.
1   Why does the owner of the restaurant want Henry to sit somewhere else?
2   What does Henry order? Why is the waiter surprised?
3   Why does the owner think Henry hesitates to pay the bill?
4   Why does the owner think the bank note is probably real?
5   What happens in the end?
4	 Watch the film clip again and make up your own script to match it. Then 
watch the film without sound and act out your script for the class.
3	 Work in groups. Retell the story in the film clip you have just watched. The 
pictures in Activity 1 may help you. 
After leaving the brothers’ 
home, Henry went to a small 
restaurant. He was about to 
sit down at a table when ...
Sequencing words
Connecting words
After leaving the brothers’ home ... 
After that ... 
Then ... 
Later (on)  ... 
In the end/Eventually ...
... because ...
... so ... 
... but ...
However ...
To one’s surprise ...
Retelling a story
a
a
a
55
  UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 63 =====
Reading for Writing 
Write a dramatic scene
1    Read the scene and answer the questions.
THE MILLION POUND BANK NOTE
Narrator:	 Henry is walking along the street holding 
the bank note in his hand. His coat is 
worn in several places. He sees a sign 
for a tailor’s shop.
Henry:	
(entering the shop) I’d like to have a suit 
coat.
1st Clerk:	 (in a rude manner) See him there. 
(pointing to another clerk)
2nd Clerk:	 Ready-made suits? Downstairs.
Henry:	
(after going down some stairs) Can you  
show me a suit, please?
3rd Clerk:	 Yes, I can, sir. This way, please. Ah, here 
we are, the very thing you need.
1st Clerk:	 (pulling the 3rd clerk aside and 
whispering) Mr Reid says you’d better 
serve him quick and get him out quick!
3rd Clerk:	 I know what I’m doing. I’ve got eyes, 
haven’t I?
Henry:	
It’s a little too bright, isn’t it?
3rd Clerk:	 (looking at him with a frown) It’s all we 
have in your size.
Henry:	
Well, I suppose it ought to do for now. I’ll 
take it.
3rd Clerk:	 Good. Shall I put it in a box?
Henry:	
No. I’ll wear it. Oh, I’d rather not pay you 
now. I’d like to pay in a month. You see, 
I don’t have any small change. 
3rd Clerk:	 (trying not to show he’s angry) I suppose 
a gentleman like you only carries very 
large bills.
Henry:	
Now, you shouldn’t judge people by their 
clothes. I just don’t want to cause you 
trouble with a large note.
3rd Clerk:	 It’s no trouble at all.	
Henry:	
In that case, there’s no problem. (He gives 
the clerk the bank note. The clerk drops 
Henry’s coat. Then he folds the bill and 
slowly unfolds it again, as if looking at 
something he can’t believe is there.)
Owner: 	
Well, what seems to be the trouble?
Henry: 	
I’m just waiting for my change.
Owner:	
Give him his change, Todd. Get going … 
(after getting the bank note from Todd) 
Would it … could it be the one I saw in the 
papers last week? I remember thinking that 
never would I hold such a note as this ... (to 
Henry) Oh, take off this coat, sir. (to Todd) Go 
get the others, Todd! (to Henry again) Allow 
me, sir! This way, sir.
(in another part of the shop, where there is a wide range of 
options for Henry to choose from)
Henry: 	
This is nice, but I really don’t need it.
Owner: 	
Never mind. (with a broad smile) Oh, it’s 
perfect! It was made for some king but he’ll 
just have to wait. You’ll need many suits for 
many occasions. Yes, indeed you will.
Henry: 	
Wait a minute. I only came here to get a suit 
coat to wear today. I dare not buy all these 
things. You would have to wait a long time to 
get paid.
Owner: 	
A long time, sir? Why, you donʼt have to 
worry about that!
3rd Clerk:	 Yes, we can wait forever!
Henry: 	
Well, all right. I’ll take the suit coat for now 
and get the others later.
Owner:	
Fine, fine. Your address, sir?
Henry:	
I don’t have one. Er … I’m moving.
Owner:	
Of course you are! That’s very normal! A 
busy man, I’m sure.
ACT 2, SCENE 1
56
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 64 =====
4   Perform your scene before the class.
3   Use what you have learnt to write a new scene for the play where Henry will 
try to use the bank note. 
1   Work in groups. Brainstorm a place that Henry will go to, and what difficulties he might face.
2   In your group:
     A   Make a list of the characters.
     B   Make an outline of the events in the scene.
     C   Decide how the characters’ feelings change during the scene.
     D   Think of an exciting ending.
     E   Write the dialogue. 
     F   Write the stage directions which tell the actors what to do or how to say something.
3   In your group, use this checklist to help you revise the draft.
  Are all the elements of a play included and in good order?
  Do the characters use suitable language?
  Are the stage directions clear and useful?
  Is the plot clear and exciting enough?
  Are there any grammar, spelling, or punctuation errors?
1   Where does Henry go? What does he want?
2   What do the clerks show Henry at first? Why?
3   What makes the people in the store change their attitudes towards Henry? 
4   Why would the owner be willing to wait for a long time to get paid?
5   Is it right to judge people by their clothes? Why or why not?
2   Study the language features. 
1   Underline the sentences that show how people’s attitudes change towards Henry.
2   Read the scene again and find an example for each of the following elements. Then 
     discuss with your partner how to write each element.
character names
lines of dialogue
narration
scene
stage directions
title of play
57
  UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 65 =====
Assessing Your Progress
  What did you learn about plays and scripts that you did not know before?
  What did you learn about the value of money and wealth in society?
  What part of this unit was the most difficult? What part was the most interesting?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 meaningful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
2	 Complete the passages with suitable modal verbs or the correct forms of the 
verbs in brackets. Add not if necessary.
1	
The saying “Don’t judge a book by its cover” means that we 
 judge the value of something 
just based on its external appearance. This is a useful principle to remember when we meet new 
people. We 
 treat everyone we meet for the first time nicely, no matter how they look. 
Most of us 
 like to be judged on our appearance, because it 
 be unfair to us. So 
we 
 remind ourselves to give new people we meet a fair chance. Anybody 
 be 
someone who is worth getting to know. In fact, this person 
 end up becoming your good 
friend if you 
 take a chance and get to know him or her!
2	
Three rich men talked about their ideas for next year. One said he 
 (make) even more 
money and keep it in the bank. Another said he 
 (give) half of all his money to the 
government to help poor people. The third man said he also 
 (make) more money, but he 
 (use) half of this new money to build a new hospital for his hometown. Which of these 
ideas do you think is the best and why?
1	 Complete the script below using the words in the box.
bet    case    downstairs    duty    occasions    ought to    settle    tailor
N:	 After that, it seemed like everyone in London 
was talking about Henry. The American 
ambassador to Britain invited Henry to 
an upper-class party. Henry felt it was his 
 to go. He wanted to maintain a 
good relationship with the ambassador in 
 others found out just how poor he 
really was.
A:	 Ah, there you are.
P: 	 (to Henry) How do you do?
A:	 Mr Adams, my special guest, Miss Portia 
Langham.
H:	 How do you do? 
A:	 If you’ll excuse me, I must go 
 to 
see the other guests. (He leaves.)
P: 	 Won’t you sit down, please?
H:	 Yes, I’d love to ... with your permission. 
Thank you, Miss. 
P: 	 That poor, dear ambassador. He hates these 
 almost as much as I do. Nothing 
but talk, talk, talk. And no one says anything 
anyone wants to hear, do they? 
H:	 No, I 
 they don’t.
P: 	 The ambassador tells me you are a rich man. 
He tells me you are the talk of London. Why, 
it seems that every banker and 
 in 
the city is eager to meet you.
H:	 Yes, I’ve heard. I can’t understand why, really. 
I’m not so special as that. 
P: 	 Are you planning to 
 in London?
H:	 Well, I hadnʼt really thought about it much.
P: 	 You 
 think about it.
THE MILLION POUND BANK NOTE
ACT 2, SCENE 2
N = Narrator  A = Ambassador  P = Portia  H = Henry
REFLECTING 
58
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 66 =====
You are going to perform one of the scenes from The Million Pound Bank Note, or 
one that you wrote yourself. 
Step 1    Choose a scene to perform.
Step 2    Choose the producer and the director.
                 The producer is the organiser of a play. He or she hires people, and makes 
                   sure that everyone has what they need for their jobs.
                 The director guides the actors.
Step 3    (The producer) Decide on: 
 
                 the main actors, including the narrator
                 the extras (actors without speaking parts)
                 the set decorator (the person who makes the set)
                 the prop person (the person who provides or makes the props)
                 the costume manager
Step 4    Have a rehearsal.
                 The actors should practise and remember their lines. They should pay
                   attention to their facial expressions, gestures, intonation, and actions. 
                   The director should help the actors. 
                 The producer should help the set decorator, the prop person, and the 
                   costume manager to get everything they need.
Step 5    Have a dress rehearsal. 
               The actors perform together dressed in their costumes. The set, props, 
               music, etc. should be ready at the same time.
Step 6    Perform your scene for the class.
Step 7    After all the scenes have been performed, the class should then 
                give awards for the best scene, best producer, best director, 
                best actor, best costumes, etc.
RESTAURANT
*Project: Give a performance of a scene from the play
59
  UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 

===== PAGE 67 =====
In this scene from The Million Pound Bank 
Note, the owner of the tailorʼs shop has called 
the Bumbles Hotel and told them that a rich 
American, Henry Adams, is coming and that they 
should give him their best room.
At the Hotel
BEFORE YOU WATCH
1	 Look at the characters listed in the box and predict who will appear in the 
film clip.
2	 What do you think this scene is about? Choose the best answer.
bellboy	
manager	
tailor	
police officer	
maid
waiter/waitress	
doorman	
driver	
secretary	
chef
A  Henry Adams lost his bank note at the hotel.
B  Henry Adams fell in love with Portia at the hotel.
C  Henry Adams received a warm reception at the hotel.
WHILE YOU WATCH
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Put the events in the correct order.
   The real Henry Adams appears.
   Henry makes friends with the man.
   The doorman thinks the man is Henry, and so he invites him inside.
   A man appears wearing a hat.
   The hotel manager realises he has made a mistake.
3	 Answer the questions.
1  Why do the people at the hotel mistake the man for Henry Adams? 
2  The man seems odd to the hotel workers. Why are they so nice to him? 
3  How do the hotel workers treat the man when they discover that he is not Henry? Why?
4  What does the man do for a job?
5  Why does Henry want to make friends with the man?
AFTER YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions with your classmates.
1  Why do people treat Henry and the man differently at the hotel?
2  Do you think “money makes the world go aroundˮ? Why or why not?
* Video Time
60
UNIT 5 THE VALUE OF MONEY 
