UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
Compare and contrast
Some words and phrases are often used 
to compare and contrast information. It is 
easier to understand two separate things by 
describing their similarities and differences.

===== PAGE 10 =====
When Claire got home, she wept. Gladys 
was everything Claire wished to be. Tony 
told her she was being sensitive and was 
just as good as Gladys. He suggested that 
she invite Gladys and her friends to the 
house the night before he was to leave 
and Larry was to return. By that time, Tony 
expected that the house, which was being 
completely transformed, would be ready.
Tony worked steadily on the improvements. 
Claire tried to help by working on a light 
suspended from the ceiling, but she fell off 
the ladder. Even though Tony had been in 
the next room, he managed to catch her in 
time. As he held her, she felt the warmth of 
his body. She screamed, pushed him away, 
and ran to her room.
The night of the party arrived. The clock 
struck eight. The guests would be arriving 
soon, so Claire dismissed Tony for the rest of 
the night. At that moment, Tony took her in 
his arms, bringing his face close to hers. She 
heard him declare that he did not want 
to leave her the next day, and that he felt 
more than just the desire to please her. Then 
the front door bell rang.
5	 Complete the diagram with the similarities and differences between Tony and 
a human being. Then use the words in the boxes to describe the similarities 
and differences.
4	 Claire’s feelings towards Tony changed as the story developed. Review the 
story, and then complete the chart.
6	 Discuss the questions in pairs. 
1	 Do you think it is possible for a person to love a robot? Why?
2	 What relationship do you think will develop between humans and robots in the future?
3	 How do you think this story will end? Work in groups and come up with an ending. 
Then listen to the rest of the story. How different is it from your ending? 
A human being’s facial expression changes often, whereas Tony’s never changes.
EXAMPLE
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
3
Occasion
Claire …
Occasion
Claire …
1 before he arrived
disliked him
5
called him a dear
2 
was alarmed
6
felt his warmth
3
felt embarrassed
7
felt being envied
4 
admired him
8
cried all night
Comparison
Contrast
the same as    similar to
similarly    more like
just as    in comparison
in the same way
different from    but
while    whereas  
although    however
on the other hand
in contrast
Tony
Human being
facial expression 
changes often
facial expression 
never changes
smooth
hair

===== PAGE 11 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Replace the underlined parts with words of similar meanings from the text. 
Rewrite the sentences if necessary.
2	 ​Match each word with the proper definition below.  
3	 ​Complete the passage using the correct forms of the words in the box. Then 
in pairs share your opinion on AI development.
It would not be surprising if we found it difficult to distinguish between reality and 
 
in the future. For example, robots first appeared in sci-fi novels, but now robot soldiers have 
already been 
 in war. Robot experts have also built robots that can see, talk, and 
do other things like humans. Although a robot that looks 
 a human than a machine 
could make many people a bit uncomfortable, we have to admit that it is a 
 
possibility. Sophia, currently said to be the most advanced AI robot in the world, is a great 
example. She has been interviewed many times, appeared on the covers of magazines, 
and become the first non-human in the world to be given citizenship by a country. When it 
comes to games, 2017 became a year in which AI defeated humans in so many games that 
AI researchers say that it will not be long before AI can win at almost everything. So have we 
lost the 
 of being the most intelligent creature? Maybe in the future, as AI becomes 
even more 
, it will become a major threat to humans. However, some people 
 this fear. They believe if AI can handle tasks like calculating and driving for us, we 
will have more time for creating, thinking, and “being human”.
fascinating  test out  dismiss  science fiction  more like  dignity  intelligent
1	 We believe he is a man of absolute honesty, and trust his words completely.
2	 Henry told me that he was in a hurry as he had arranged to see the dentist at 10:00 a.m.
3	 Rumours are like sharp knives, cutting one’s self-respect into pieces. We should be aware 
of this and not spread unkind news around.
4	 Because of the holiday, the students were allowed to go home early.
5	 Whoever is charged with a crime should be presumed innocent until proven otherwise.
4
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
1  income
A	 money that someone is paid regularly, usually monthly, by the 
organisation he or she is working for
B	 money given for work done, goods received, etc.
C	 money paid for work or services, typically on a daily or weekly basis
D	 extra amount of money added to somebody’s wages as a reward for 
hard work or good performance
E	 money received from work, investments and so on
F	 money paid to a professional person or organisation for advice or 
services
G	 money paid for a journey on public transport, such as the bus, train, 
or taxi
H	 money saved for a special purpose
2  fee
3  fare
4  payment
5  salary
6  bonus
7  saving
8  wage

===== PAGE 12 =====
Review useful structures
1	 Scan the reading text and underline all the verbs in the passive voice. Then 
discuss with a partner why the passive voice is used.
2	 Complete the sentences with appropriate forms of the verbs in brackets. 
Then try to translate these sentences into Chinese.
3	 Read the introduction to a science fiction novel and complete the passage 
using the correct forms of the words in the box.
explore    translate    discover    regard    represent 
set up    recruit    write     get caught up    connect
1	 What is done cannot 
. (undo)
2	 Janet 
 chairwoman of the student union last month. (elect)
3	 Two hundred grammes of flour should 
 to the cake mix. (add)
4	 A 3,000-seat venue 
 for the circus performance in November. (build)
5	 Working efficiency 
 since this new software was adopted. (improve)
6	 Only one piece of carry-on luggage 
 for each economy class passenger. (allow)
7	 It is a great honour for me to 
 to address this international AI conference. (invite)
8	 When I entered the room, I found that the salesman’s salary 
 at the meeting. 
(discuss)
9	 With exams being adapted into Braille, a blind senior high school student scored 630 
points out of 650 in the College Entrance Examination. He is expected to 
 to a 
top university. (admit)
Science fiction 
 by many people as a mirror through which our future can be freely 
imagined and 
. The Three-Body Problem, 
 by Chinese writer Liu Cixin, 
is one of those astonishing predictions about the future. The work was first published in a 
Chinese sci-fi magazine in 2006 and printed as a three-volume book in 2008. When the first 
volume 
 into English by Chinese-American author Ken Liu, it attracted attention 
around the world, becoming the first Asian winner of the Hugo Award for Best Novel. The 
book 
 many themes such as space exploration, alien contact, AI, and the future of 
humans.
The Three-Body Problem begins with the stories of two unrelated people, Ye Wenjie and Wang 
Miao. Ye 
 to join a secret project in a remote area of China, which 
 
to contact alien life forms. In the other story, set 20 years later, Wang Miao 
 
in a popular online game called “Three Body”, in which people live on an unknown planet 
with three suns. But Wang discovers it is more than a game—it uncovers a great danger 
threatening human existence. How are these two people’s stories 
? And how will 
their behaviour change Earth’s future and the civilisations of other planets? Answers to all these 
questions are waiting to 
 when you go on reading.
5

===== PAGE 13 =====
Using Language
1    Look at the pictures and discuss the questions in pairs.
2	 Listen to an interview and put these statements in the correct order. 
3	 Listen to the interview again and 
write down the discourse markers 
that you hear. Make a note of how 
each discourse marker is used in 
the interview. Then compare your 
answers with a partner.
Voice your opinions on robots and AI
1	 What jobs are these robots doing? What are the pros and cons of robots doing these jobs?
2	 What kinds of robots or AI developments do you hope for?
 1	
The host introduces the guest, a sci-fi expert.
	
The expert has robots in his home.
	
As robots become more intelligent, they may also become more dangerous.
	
The host mentions Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics.
	
The expert says robots will have occupations such as teaching and nursing.
	
The line between humans and robots will be more blurred in the future.
	
The host asks about benefits and problems.
	
The host asks if there are robots in the expert’s home.
	
In sci-fi stories, robots often become superior and take over.
Listen for discourse markers
Discourse markers are used to 
organise a text by marking sequence, 
contrast, opinion, purpose, and so 
on. Listening for discourse markers 
can help you understand a text more 
easily. For example, first, however, 
above all, in order to, etc.
6
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION

===== PAGE 14 =====
Listening and Speaking
4	 ​In groups, discuss what the expert thinks of the questions and exchange your 
own views. You may use the following expressions to help you.
Oh, by the way, …        Oh, I remember, …    I nearly forgot! …   
What I meant to tell/ask you is …	
…, but (perhaps) that’s beside the point.
That reminds me of …	
 	
The next item on the agenda is …
I think we ought to move on to …	
On the one hand … On the other hand …
Oh, there was something I meant to tell you.	
Could I change the subject?
Changing the topic
       EXAMPLE
A:	 Oh, by the way, I saw a programme about robot doctors last night. It was very interesting. 
Do you think robots will do more of these important jobs in the future?
B:	 Certainly. They will probably do most of our labour for us.
C:	 Maybe, but that’s beside the point. In my opinion, robots are dangerous! They are much 
stronger than we are and may be superior to us in the future.
…
1	 What do you know about robot technology? What can robots do?
2	 What benefits do you think robots or AI will bring? Do you think they will cause problems as 
well?
3	 Do you know anything about Isaac Asimov and his famous Three Laws of Robotics? What 
do you think of these laws?
A ROBOT MAY NOT INJURE A 
HUMAN BEING, OR, THROUGH 
INACTION, ALLOW A HUMAN 
BEING TO COME TO HARM.
LAW 1
LAW 2
LAW 3
A ROBOT MUST OBEY THE ORDERS 
GIVEN IT BY HUMAN BEINGS EXCEPT 
WHERE SUCH ORDERS WOULD 
CONFLICT WITH THE FIRST LAW.
A ROBOT MUST PROTECT ITS OWN 
EXISTENCE AS LONG AS SUCH 
PROTECTION DOES NOT CONFLICT 
WITH THE FIRST OR SECOND LAW.
THREE LAWS OF ROBOTICS
7

===== PAGE 15 =====
Write a sci-fi short story
1    In groups, discuss what you would do if you could time travel.
2	 The Time Machine was written in 1895 by famous science fiction writer H.G. 
Wells. Read an extract from this story, and find out how many times the Time 
Traveller started the machine.
Using Language
8
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
THE TIME MACHINE (Adapted)
It was at ten o’clock today that the first of all Time Machines 
began its career. I gave it a last check, and sat myself in the 
leather seat. I pushed the starting lever on the main panel 
forwards an inch then immediately backwards again. Looking 
around, I saw my laboratory exactly as before. Had anything 
happened? I thought my mind had tricked me. Then I saw the 
clock. A moment before, it was a minute or so past ten; now it was 
nearly half past three!
I drew a breath, gripped the lever and pushed it forwards. The laboratory went hazy 
around me. My niece came in to fetch something, maybe her handkerchief, apparently 
without seeing me. It probably took her a minute, but to me she moved like a rocket! I 
pushed the lever further. Night came as if a lamp was being turned out, and in another 
moment came the day. Tomorrow night came, then skipped to day, again and again, 
faster and faster still.
It is hard to explain the strange and unpleasant feeling of time travelling. It felt like I was 
being driven fast on a winding road. As my pace grew faster, the walls of the laboratory 
fell away, and I was left in the open air. The sun and moon looked as if they were being 
thrown across the sky, but soon there was division between night and day. Around me 
I saw trees growing like puffs of smoke; they grew, spread, and died in moments. I saw 
huge buildings rise up, then 
disappear like in a dream. 
The whole surface of the 
earth was being changed, 
melting and flowing before 
my eyes. I calculated that I 
was being pushed through 
time at hundreds of years a 
minute.
I had a strong urge to look 
at the random things that 
were being flashed before 
my eyes! I had thought 
about the risk of stopping 

===== PAGE 16 =====
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
9
3    Read the text again and answer the questions.
5	 Imagine and write your own story about a time machine you will invent, and your 
journey through time. Use the story and the guide below to help you. 
6	 Exchange your draft with a partner and 
revise the draft using your partner’s 
comments.
7	 Share your story with the rest of the class.
4 	 Work in groups. Discuss what might happen next in the story. Use the following 
questions to help you and make brief notes. Then present your story to the class.
1	 How does the Time Traveller first know he has travelled through time?
2	 How does the Time Traveller feel when travelling through time? What rhetorical devices 
does the writer use to describe his feelings?
3	 Why is the Time Traveller worried about stopping the machine?
4	 Where does the Time Machine arrive when the man finally stops it?
1	 Think about what your machine will look like. Is it a vehicle or 
a machine?
2	 How does your time machine work? What do you have to 
do to make it work?
3	 What period in time do you want to travel to? Think about 
interesting things and people you would like to see there.
4	 Imagine what it might feel like to travel through time. Think 
of words to describe this and make your story as vivid as 
possible.
5	 Include rhetorical devices in your story, like metaphors, similes, 
overstatements, etc. 
•  What date do you think it is when the Time Traveller finally stops?
•  What do you think is different about that time from the time he left?
•  Who or what do you think the Time Traveller will meet?
•  What adventures do you think he will have in the future?
•  Do you think he will ever return to his own time?
the Time Machine many times. So long as I travelled at maximum speed, it didn’t 
matter. But if I stopped and the same space was being occupied by something 
else, we would be forced together and explode like a bomb! Like an impatient 
fool, I pulled the lever backwards hard. With a sudden jolt, the Time Machine was 
flipped on its side, and I was thrown through the air.
I was stunned for a moment, and then heard the sound of thunder. I was sitting in 
the rain in some mud next to the machine. “A fine welcome,” I said, “for a man 
who has travelled thousands of years to be here!”

===== PAGE 17 =====
1  	 Complete the following sentences using the correct forms of the words in 
the box. 
2  	 Read and complete the following sentences with appropriate forms of the 
words in brackets. Then think about why the passive voice is used in these 
sentences. 
	 What interesting things about science fiction did you learn in this unit?
	 What new vocabulary and structures did you learn in this unit? How well can you 
use them? 
	 Do you think comparing and contrasting, and listening for discourse markers were 
useful strategies for you to understand the texts?
	 What problems did you have with this unit? How did you solve them?
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 inspiring 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
  fetch    superior to    calculate    have an urge to
suspend    dismiss    explode    pace
Assessing Your Progress
10
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
1	 Batteries are not allowed by airlines in checked luggage, as they might 
 due to 
overheating.
2	 The new generation of smartphones is greatly 
 older version.
3	 Since I don’t have much time, I need to 
 how long it will take me to do the 
task.
4	 Ordered by its master, the AI dog 
 the book from the bookshelf.
5	 I was so pleased to hear the bell ring and our teacher announce, “Class is 
.”
6	 The company has to 
 the space exploration project due to financial problems.
7	 City people are experiencing increasing psychological pressure as a result of a faster 
 of life and rising competition.
8	 At one time or another, each of us probably 
 break the routine of daily life and 
try something new.
1	 Mobile phones must 
 during the concert. (switch off)
2	 When I came here at this time last year, the conference hall 
. (build)
3	 Topics like life in the future, AI development, and aliens 
 in sci-fi. (often find)
4	 Do you know which country 
 by Italy, Austria, Germany, and France? (border)
5	 Continuous research 
 on smart schools, smart homes, and smart cities. 
(conduct)
6	 It should 
 that the result of your examinations will not 
. (note; 
publicise)
7	 It 
 that more species will become extinct if we continue to destroy the 
ecosystem. (assume)
8	 All members of the audience should 
 smartly, and the wearing of slippers 
 in the concert hall. (dress; not allow)

===== PAGE 18 =====
1  	 In groups, do some research about robots or AI devices in sci-fi films and 
novels, and write a list of as many robot characters or AI devices as you can 
think of. Use the Internet to help you.
2 	 Make a table like the one below and fill in the parts for different robot 
characters and AI devices on your list.
3 	 Create your own robot character or AI device. Consider the following 
questions and make notes. 
4 	 Prepare your design for submission to a science fair using the following 
guidelines.
* Project: Design a robot or an AI device
the Star Wars movies             Wall·E                  Big Hero Six
the Transformers movies      Pacific Rim          the Foundation Series
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
11
1	 What is your robot or AI device called? Why?
2	 What does it look like? Why?
3	 What can your robot or AI device do? Why and how?
4	 Does it have a personality or specific function? If so, what is it like?
5	 What makes your robot or AI device unique?
•	 Design a poster or slide presentation showing your creation, including a name, title, and 
pictures of your robot or AI device.
•	 Write a description of the robot or AI device. 
•	 Make a presentation using your poster or slides.
Movie/Novel
Name
Characteristic
Function/
Ability
Unique quality
Star Wars
R2-D2
Brave, funny, 
mischievous
Co-pilot, hack 
computers
He speaks in beeps and 
whistles

===== PAGE 19 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Look at the photos from the video and discuss the questions in groups.	
1	 What do you think these patterns represent?
2	 Who or what do you think made these patterns and how?
WHILE  YOU WATCH
Answer these questions.
1	 Who do some people think the circles are made by?
2	 Why did Mr Presley decide to find out more about the circles?
3	 Where were other types of circles found?
4	 Why do Matthew and his team like making crop circles?
5	 What does Matthew think some people use the crop circles for?
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	 Do you believe crop circles are all made by humans or by aliens? What do you think the 
crop circles represent?
2	 What kind of crop circle would you create? Discuss and decide on its appearance and 
meaning. Draw it on a large sheet of paper. Then present it to the rest of the class.
Mysterious Crop Circles
This video examines a strange phenomenon that 
has taken place in the English countryside for many 
decades. From time to time, crop circle patterns 
have appeared, with people debating for years their 
possible causes and meanings.
* Video Time
12
UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION

===== PAGE 20 =====
Whatever makes an impression 
on the heart seems lovely in 
the eye. 
—Saadi
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about iconic attractions in different places.
2  hear and talk about what best represents a place.
3  write a description of an iconic animal.
4  learn more about iconic attractions in a city or 
town.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you know about the place in the 
photo?
2  What are your impressions of this place?
3  Do you know of any other iconic 
attractions in the world?
ICONIC 
ATTRACTIONS
UNIT 2
13

===== PAGE 21 =====
Reading and Thinking
dim sim
14