UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
Experience the iconic features of Australia
1	 Work in groups and discuss the questions.
2	 Skim the text. Match the blog entries to the subheadings. Write the blog 
entry numbers in the blanks. Two are extra.
1	 What is the first thing you think of when you think about Australia?
2	 What is your impression of Australia based on your experience and/or what you have seen 
in the media?
 The foundation of Australia	
 First impressions       
 Reflections on multiculturalism	
 Preparing to travel
 Political divisions	
	
 Aborigines and the didgeridoo
 25 Sep
Next week I’m travelling to Australia to visit a friend there over the school holidays. I 
plan to keep this blog to record my experiences and what I learn. I have already done 
some research on the country. Located to the south of the equator, below many other 
countries on the globe, it’s often informally referred to as “down under”. 
I have also read about some iconic sites, such as the Sydney Opera House and the 
Great Ocean Road, and animals like the cute koalas and kangaroos. I can’t wait to see 
all of them! However, as I major in social studies, I’m more interested in meeting people 
in Australia and experiencing their culture, food, and way of life.
	
1 Oct 
I’m here in Sydney! Since I arrived, my friend has brought me to my first open-air 
barbecue and has also shared many different but yummy meals with me, so my first 
impressions of Australia have been all about food! A lot 
of typical Australian food, such as the Sunday roast, is 
originally British. Bakeries, fast-food joints, butcher shops, 
cafes, and restaurants everywhere provide some of the 
premier food experiences in the world. The influence of 
Asian cultures, on the other hand, led to the introduction 
of bean curd and Asian herbs, along with Australian 
versions of foods like the Chinese-inspired dim sim.
	
3 Oct 
My friend and I have arrived in Katherine, a town in Australia’s Northern Territory. We’re 
here to learn about the life and customs of the Aborigines, who are native to Australia. 
The Aboriginal population might be small, but its influence is still visible. For example, 
“Bondi” in “Bondi Beach” is an Aboriginal word meaning “water breaking over rocks”. 
To survive in this vast land on the ocean, the Aborigines had to be in close contact 
with nature. This shows in their music, too, which celebrates the natural world and the 

===== PAGE 22 =====
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
15
5	 Work in groups. Discuss what iconic Chinese attractions you would like to 
introduce to a foreigner and explain why.
4	 Did you find your notes helpful? Discuss how your notes can be improved.
Take notes
When you read a passage, 
sometimes it helps to take 
notes so that you can better 
remember and understand 
what you have learnt. When 
you take notes, it is good to 
write down the important 
facts just using key words 
and ignore many of the small 
words. You can also use 
abbreviations, such as “Aus” for 
“Australia” and “N” for “north”, 
and use symbols such as “&” 
for “and”.
3	 Read the text again and take notes. Then use your 
notes to answer the following questions.
1	 What does “down under” mean?
2	 How has Australian cuisine been influenced by different 
cultures? Give two examples.
3	 What is the main theme reflected in Aboriginal music and 
why?
4	 What are the writer’s first and biggest impressions of 
Australia? Why?
spiritual world around them. Most of their 
musical instruments are really just sticks 
found on the ground, among which 
there is an amazing instrument called the 
didgeridoo.
The didgeridoo is made from a tree 
branch which is hollow. To play the 
didgeridoo, you put your mouth on 
one end and blow while vibrating your lips. Unlike a horn, there are no finger holes. 
The didgeridoo player has to change the shape of his mouth in order to change pitch. 
A skilled player can play for a long time without stopping to breathe. He does this by 
continually breathing in through his nose while breathing out through his mouth and into 
the didgeridoo. I tried to learn how to play it, but after trying for hours, I was convinced that 
I could never make a musical sound with this instrument!
	
6 Oct 
It’s almost time for me to say goodbye to Australia. I’ve enjoyed my time here very much. 
After being here for a while, my biggest impression is the complicated mix of peoples and 
cultures that make up the nation. Although the main cultural influence since 1788 has been 
Western culture, minority cultures have also played a part in shaping the unique Australian 
culture, with many of the new cultural influences contributed by immigrants. It is said that 
now nearly half of all Australian citizens were either born overseas or have parents who 
were born overseas.
Personally speaking, what I like most about Australia is the people themselves. They have a 
straightforward and free-and-easy attitude towards life, and their friendliness and warmth 
made me feel at home wherever I went. 
After experiencing Australia, I have to say that I agree with the 
tourism slogan: “There’s nothing like Australia.”

===== PAGE 23 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary 
1	 Write down the word that matches each definition. Make a sentence with 
each word.
2	 Read the following pairs of sentences and find out which underlined word 
has the same meaning as the one used in the reading text.
3	 Read an advertisement on Thailand’s iconic attractions. Fill in the blanks 
using the correct forms of the words in brackets. 
1	
	 an imaginary line around the earth at an equal distance from the North 
	
	
and South Poles
2	
	 an outdoor meal with food cooked on a metal frame over a fire
3	
	 a plant that is used to improve the taste of food, or to make medicine
4	
	 someone who owns or works in a shop that sells meat
5	
	 the establishing of a new institution or organisation
1	 A	The partners agreed to make a joint effort to meet the project deadlines.
	
B	There are many burger joints in Bondi Beach, one of Australia’s most famous tourist spots.
2	 A	The premier of the Australian government is called the Prime Minister.
	
B	The Sydney Opera House is a performing arts centre in Sydney. It is one of the 20th 
	
	 century’s premier buildings. 
3	 A	Australian English is particularly different from other types of English in its pronunciation, 
	
	 so it is rather straightforward to recognise an Australian accent.
	
B	Many Australians have a straightforward approach to life.
4	 A	A minority of frogs in the forest are poisonous, and locals extract the poison to use on the 
	
	 tips of their arrows.
	
B	Ethnic minority groups in China are often entitled to special funds from the government to 
	
	 help protect their cultural heritage. 
Thailand is a premier holiday destination, attracting tourists from all over the world. Consisting of 
77 provinces that 
 (stretch) all the way down to Malaysia in the south, the country 
has a lot to offer and is a great getaway. A major attraction of Thailand is its amazing selection 
of islands, each with long sandy beaches and clear blue water. Visitors to the beaches can enjoy 
many activities, 
 (include) diving, kayaking, and rock climbing. Finding the islands 
is not 
 (complicate), and there are a variety of islands to suit all tastes. Be careful, 
however, not to go to popular islands during peak season, unless you want to 
 
(wrestle) with other tourists! Many tourists also enjoy visiting Chiang Mai to see the beautiful 
elephants, the national animal and proud 
 (iconic) of Thailand. Unfortunately, 
elephants are 
 (endanger) in Thailand, but special parks have been set up to 
protect their safety and freedom. Visitors can see these 
 (amaze) creatures in their 
natural domain, and also sponsor an elephant to preserve its health and liberty.
16
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS

===== PAGE 24 =====
Review useful structures
1	 Work in groups and read the text again to find as many examples of past 
participles as possible. Then discuss whether each past participle functions 
as an attribute, adverbial, predicative, or object complement. 
2	 Fill in the blanks with the help of the beginning letters. Then rewrite the 
sentences without using past participles and recognise the difference.
3	 Below is a passage about the history of the Eiffel Tower before it was 
considered an iconic attraction. The text contains quite a few verb form 
mistakes. Correct the mistakes on your own. Then compare your corrections 
with a partner.
1	 D
 as “the home of golf”, Scotland is a perfect destination for a relaxing holiday.
2	 Cuba is just south of America, s
 from it only by the Straits of Florida. It is a 
country k
 for its exciting music and dancing.
3	 With many parts of the world not m
 yet, researchers have begun a project that 
involves travelling around the world and taking sample photographs.
4	 I
 by the first European settlers to Australia, the Sunday roast is now considered 
typical Australian food.
5	 E
 to the freezing weather, many brave tourists and scientists still choose to 
visit Antarctica.
6	 I
 by Chinese culture, many capital cities now have Chinatowns which are in 
themselves popular tourist attractions. 
The Eiffel Tower is the most famous landmark in France, and one of the 
most visiting monuments in the world. But it wasn’t always so popular. 
In fact, in 1886, just after its construction was first propose, many were 
strongly against it. At that time, it would have been the tallest building in 
the world, and many claim it would destroy the skyline of Paris, or perhaps 
even destroy some historic landmarks. The chief engineer, Gustave Eiffel, 
replied say that such a large monument was necessary to symbolise the 
great efforts of the French people as well as the great advancements in 
modern engineering, industry, and science. The next year, Eiffel gains 
approval and the tower was built in time to celebrate the 1889 World Fair 
in Paris. If you look carefully at the tower, you can still see the names of the 
72 scientists, engineers, and mathematicians who help in its construction. 
Originally, the tower was planned to be taken down after 20 years, but it 
proved to be too useful as a communications tower, not to mention a giant 
advertisement board, before finally becomes the iconic attraction that we 
all know today.
       EXAMPLE
Located to the south of the equator, below many other countries on the globe, it is often 
informally referred to as “down under”.  (located/adverbial)
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
17

===== PAGE 25 =====
Using Language
1    What do you know about New Zealand? Do some research to find out more about 
the following. Which attracts you the most? 
2    Listen to a radio programme called Amazing New Zealand. Three speakers 
are talking about what they believe to best represent New Zealand. Match the 
speakers with their jobs and their choices. 
3    Listen again and take notes. List the reasons given by the speakers why these 
three things best represent New Zealand.
Discuss what best represents a place
the geothermal parks:
the New Zealand experience:
the Bay of Islands:
Dave Edmonds	
writer of the Fantastic Life blog	
 the geothermal parks
Felicity James	
business journalist	
 the New Zealand experience
Jane Smith	
editor of World Nature magazine	
 the Bay of Islands 
18
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
1 the Bay of Islands
3 a kiwi bird
2  the haka
6 manuka honey
4 a geyser
7 bungee jumping
8 a flock of sheep
5 a sulphuric pool

===== PAGE 26 =====
Describe an iconic animal
Listening and Speaking
4    How do the speakers sum up their opinions? 
Complete their sentences with the words you hear.
5    In groups, discuss what best represents China. Brainstorm the following topics 
and take notes.
6    Choose one place to give a presentation on. Use the expressions below to help you.
It’s a leading …	
It’s home to/of …	
It’s famous/well-known for …
It has/features …	
It’s a 
 centre.	
It’s the centre of …
You can visit/see/enjoy …	
	
Some of its attractions include …
It’s one of the top/best … in the world.	
… allows people to …
It’s celebrated around the world for …	
 
When people talk about the 
same subject for a long time, 
they often end by stating the 
main point of their talk. Such 
summaries often begin with 
phrases such as In summary, 
To sum up,  All in all,  In short, 
and so on.
Sum up
Describing special features of a place
1	
, the Bay of Islands is really what best 
represents New Zealand.
2	
, the places that best represent New 
Zealand are the geothermal parks.
3	
, I would like to suggest that tourists not 
just visit iconic places in New Zealand—they should 
experience its culture.
• the cultural centre	
• the economic centre
• the centre(s) of various cuisines	
• the music centre
• the best place to see nature	
• the best place to experience history
• the most diverse region	
• the place with the best quality of life
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
19
1    Read the text and then answer the questions on page 21.
Our topic today is “Creatures Unique to Australia”, with questions answered by wildlife 
expert, Dr Jim Smith.
Australia has lots of unique animals, 
but which animal is a symbol of the country?
It has to be the kangaroo, as it has a wide distribution 
throughout the country. It’s a tough animal that has 
to survive in a difficult environment. Also, it cannot 
walk backwards, so it is always moving forwards. This 
expresses the strength and resolve of the Australians 
as individuals and as a nation. Baby kangaroos weigh 
only two grammes at birth. They then find their way 
THE AMAZING ANIMALS OF AUSTRALIA

===== PAGE 27 =====
Using Language
20
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
into their mother’s pouch—a kind of pocket—to stay safe and warm. They sleep and drink 
milk in that temporary, protected environment until they are about seven or eight months 
old. After this phase, they go out to try their legs. After they learn to jump, they gradually 
spend less time with their mother and learn to be independent. Kangaroos may look cute, 
but encounters with them don’t always end so well. Kangaroos can hit and kick very hard, so 
please folks, if you see some kangaroos, remember they’re not for petting! 
Koalas are cute, and we see so many pictures of people 
holding them. But in many places in Australia, it is against the 
law to even touch them. Can you clarify that?
They are really quite cute, but the truth is, koalas are very 
sensitive creatures who can easily panic because of even 
small changes in their environment. They spend quite 
a lot of time eating, sleeping, and hanging onto tree 
trunks, so interaction with humans can cause them a lot 
of stress. Because of this, the government began to make 
laws against touching koalas, in the interest of animal 
protection, as well as public safety. So, if you see one in 
the wild, you shouldn’t approach it to pick it up or even 
touch it. If you want to hold a koala, you have to go to 
certain licensed zoos where animal experts make sure that 
the koalas selected for each session are in a good state 
for human contact and that they are handled for only a 
limited time and on a limited frequency of occasions.  
So, we’ve talked about some cute animals. 
What about animals which aren’t so cute?
My favourite is a little creature called the Tasmanian devil. 
If you are out camping in Tasmania and come across one, 
the experience might scare you! Tasmanian devils hunt 
at night, so you won’t usually see them, but you may hear 
their loud cries when they are fighting or eating. The noise 
they make could wake the dead. Frightening! They are 
about the size of small dogs and look like rather large 
black rats. They also have a terrible smell! Their diet is 
mostly dead animals. Fortunately, despite their name, they 
are generally not violent towards people.

===== PAGE 28 =====
2	 Read the text again. How does the writer describe these animals? Find at least 
three rhetorical devices the writer uses to arouse the readers’ interest.
4	 Exchange your draft with a partner. See whether the writer does a good job of 
describing the animal. Take your draft back and revise it using your partner’s 
comments.
5	 Present your description to the rest of your class.
3	 Write a description of an iconic animal in China.
1	 When do baby kangaroos begin to spend less time with their mothers?
2	 Why shouldn’t you try to pet a wild kangaroo?
3	 What do koalas spend most of their time doing?
4	 Why has the government made it against the law to handle koalas?
5	 What two things about Tasmanian devils can bother people most?
6	 What do Tasmanian devils like to eat?
7	 What makes the way duck-billed platypuses give birth so different from other mammals?
8	 What is the unique way used by duck-billed platypuses to find food?
1	 In groups, brainstorm a list of four iconic animals. 
2	 Do some research and make notes. For example: 
	
•  where they live
	
•  what they eat
	
•  what they look like
	
•  how they are different from other animals 
	
•  how they interact with people
	
•  any other unusual or interesting facts about them
3	 Using your notes, write a description of one of these animals. Remember to use some 
rhetorical devices to make your writing vivid and interesting.
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
21
Not at all. While it may lay eggs in a nest like a bird, it’s 
really a primitive mammal, with a unique biology. Its eggs 
hatch after about ten days, and then the baby platypus 
nurses from its mother like all other mammals. Its nose 
looks like a duck’s bill, and it has feet like a duck’s so it 
can dive under the water, but it’s covered in hair. Do you 
know what’s really strange about a platypus? The platypus 
doesn’t use its senses of sight or smell to find food. It has 
a capacity to find food in the water by using electrical 
sensors in its bill. There are only a small handful of animals 
in the world that can do that!
Australia also has some animals that many people 
have never heard of, for example, the duck-billed 
platypus. Is that some kind of bird?

===== PAGE 29 =====
1	 Complete the sentences using the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 Fill in the blanks using the appropriate forms of the verbs in brackets. Then 
reorder these sentences to make a passage. Find out the link between the 
Grand Bazaar and the Silk Road.
Assessing Your Progress
	 Which iconic attractions in this unit have you heard about before? Which are new to 
you? Which impressed you the most? 
	 Do you think you are becoming more confident in dealing with longer reading and 
listening passages by learning to take notes?
	 What do you think you are supposed to share when asked to describe a place you 
know well?
	 What rhetorical devices did you learn to use in your writing?
	 Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
distribution    violence    frequency    herb    hatch    capacity
1	 The iconic Beijing National Stadium, also known as the “Bird’s Nest”, has a 
 
of 80,000.
2	 Special tiger reserves with fences have greatly improved the 
 of the wild 
tiger population across India, and local police are now entitled to give longer prison 
sentences to hunters.
3	 The 
 of the boat trips between the islands falls greatly in bad weather when 
stormy waves make such journeys especially difficult.
4	 The largest native bird of Australia is the emu. Male emus are good fathers—after their 
babies are 
, they take care of them until they are nine months old.
5	
 are an essential component of traditional Chinese medicine.
6	
 tornado storms have been known to cause severe damage in America’s 
famous “Tornado Alley” area.
 A	
 (construct) as part of a larger political plan, the market was established 
to improve the city’s overall economy and prosperity.
 B	 By the 17th century, the two markets and their surrounding areas had joined 
together to create a giant market that became an important part of the Silk Road, 
 (link) Europe to Asia.
 C	 As for the future, 
 (inspire) by its own history, the Grand Bazaar ( 大巴
扎集市) is still growing, with many shops opening nearby, offering cheaper prices that 
attract even the locals.
 D	 Today, the Grand Bazaar is extremely iconic, 
 (mix) Turkey’s glorious 
trade history with its special brand of modern cultural tourism.
 E	 At first, the Grand Bazaar 
 (sell) mostly textiles, but it soon expanded 
into selling books, jewellery, furniture, food, and a lot more.
 F	 The market that was originally built was quite small in comparison to today’s Grand 
Bazaar. Some years later, another market 
 (open) nearby.
 G	 The Grand Bazaar in Istanbul, Turkey, has a long history 
 (date) back to 
1455.
22
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS

===== PAGE 30 =====
• foods	
   • buildings	
   • celebrities
• festivals	
   • scenic views	
   • culture
	
Apart from these, what other kinds of things can you think of? 
       EXAMPLE
DUJIANGYAN
Originally constructed around 256 BCE by the State of Qin as an irrigation and flood 
control system, Dujiangyan is a remarkable example of ancient engineering skill and 
is still in use today. During the Warring States period, people who lived along the 
banks of the Min River were troubled by annual flooding. Qin governor and irrigation 
engineer Li Bing investigated the problem thoroughly. He led a team to construct a 
levee to redirect a portion of the river’s flow. Then they cut a channel through Mount 
Yulei to discharge the excess water. After the system was finished, no more floods 
occurred. What’s more, it made Sichuan one of the most productive agricultural 
regions in China because the redirected water from the Min River could be used for 
irrigation. If you visit Dujiangyan, you will see an unusual construction that resembles 
a fish’s mouth. This famous attraction, Yuzui, together with two other important parts, 
namely, Feishayan and Baopingkou, was scientifically designed to control the water 
flow throughout the year. Recognised as a UNESCO heritage site, Dujiangyan has 
irrigated farms while preventing floods for over 2,000 years.
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS
23
* Project: Introduce an iconic attraction in your city or town
1    In groups, brainstorm the kinds of things that people would most like to 
experience when they travel to a new place. Examples include:
2	 Do some research and come up with three iconic attractions that may best 
represent your city or town. Think about what people can experience there. 
4	 Each of you should write about one attraction from the list and explain why it is 
worth visiting.
3	 In groups, compare your lists. Discuss which attractions are the most impressive 
and representative, and come up with a final list of the top three. 
5	 Give a presentation in class to introduce the city or town. You could even include a 
video of the attraction.

===== PAGE 31 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Match the following things.
1	
Aborigines	
​A	
“Alice”
2	
an Aboriginal group in Alice Springs​	
B	
good tucker
3	
good food​	
C	
billy cans
4	
​what the women are carrying on their heads in the race	
​D	
indigenous groups
5	
what a tourist decides to name her animal sculpture​	
E	
non-indigenous people
6	
​white people	
​F	
the Aranda people
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1   Check your answers in Before You Watch. 
2   Circle the best words to complete the sentences below.
1  Independent/Indigenous groups from across Australia’s desert centre have come to 
share with one another on the sacred/secret grounds of the Aranda people in Alice 
Springs.
2  They might be using billy cans instead of wooden bones/bowls but the activities are 
helping keep alive traditions which might otherwise be skipping/slipping.
3  ​It’s presenting an alternative picture of a national history/story which can look very 
apparent/different for black and white Australians.
4  That’s what we are trying to do with this festival—bring non-indigenous people to us, 
hear/share our culture with them, and our history, in the hope that they feel like that part 
of the nation’s history is part of their own dignity/identity.	
  	
        	
5  As night falls in the small object/pocket in the heart of Australia, people have been 
brought closer together, at least for a few days/in a few ways.
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in pairs.
1	
​Why do you think this festival is important to Aborigines? What about non-indigenous 
people?
2	
​What interested you most in the video? Why?
3	
What opportunities do you have to experience and learn about different cultures in China?
* Video Time
The Mbantua Festival
Mbantua means “awakening the desert”. The 
Mbantua Festival brings together hundreds 
of Aboriginal performers from across central 
Australia to celebrate their ceremonies, 
culture, and music through theatre, events, 
workshops, art, and film screenings.
24
UNIT 2  ICONIC ATTRACTIONS

===== PAGE 32 =====
3
UNIT 
They (oceans) provide a 
breeding ground for life, 
connect the world and 
promote development.
—Xi Jinping 
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about sea exploration in the past and now.
2  hear and talk about protecting life in the sea.
3  write an argumentative essay about sea exploration.
4  Appreciate the sea through poetry.
    Look and discuss
1	What do you think of when you see the photo?
2	What sea animals and plants do you know?
3	What words would you use to describe the 
sea?
SEA 
EXPLORATION
25

===== PAGE 33 =====
Reading and Thinking
1	
Do you know any stories about sea voyages? Share your story with a partner.
2	 Look at the title and skim the text. Decide what 
type of essay it is.
Learn about sea exploration
26
REACHING OUT ACROSS THE SEA
Trade and curiosity have often formed the foundation of 
mankind’s greatest achievements. To complete the great 
map of the world was a strong passion for the people of early 
civilisations. Marco Polo’s tales inspired European explorers to 
search for sea routes from west to east. However, merchants 
and explorers from the East set sail from east to west many years before Columbus first did.
In ancient times, silk from China found its way overland to India, the Middle East, and 
Rome, along what became known as the Silk Road. A trading route across the sea was also 
extended along the coasts of the Indian Ocean, centred around Ceylon (now Sri Lanka). 
Here, merchants from China and many other places met to negotiate trade deals, which 
also led to more awareness of each other’s cultures. Over the centuries, further trading 
allowed more exploration of the regions to the west of China, as recorded in Du Huan’s 
Record of My Travels in the eighth century.
Later, the Ming Dynasty further developed relations with these regions. Between 1405 and 
1433, seven large fleets sailed west on voyages of trade and exploration. These fleets were 
a sight to behold and were in a league of their own at that time. Under the command of 
Zheng He, they set sail from the South China Sea across the Indian Ocean to the mouth 
of the Red Sea, and then to the east coast of Africa. African royal families sent gifts such 
as giraffes as gestures of friendship in return for gold, silk, and spices. Although China 
withdrew from further expeditions after 
1433, these land and sea routes remained 
active channels between other cultures for 
centuries.
To reach out across the sea remains a 
strong desire today. The ancient sea routes 
travelled by Zheng He are being revisited 
with the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, 
which is part of the Belt and Road Initiative. 
Identify essay types
There are four major types of 
essay: narrative, descriptive, 
expository, and argumentative. 
A narrative essay is a story with 
a beginning, middle, and end. 
A descriptive essay describes 
a subject and lists interesting 
details. An expository essay 
is factual, giving information 
on a subject. Finally, an 
argumentative essay aims to 
convince the reader.

===== PAGE 34 =====
3	 Read the text again. Write down the main idea of each paragraph. 
4	 Scan the text and fill in the table with the correct names.
5	 In groups, discuss the following questions. Make notes under two columns: 
Facts and Opinions. 
Name
Description
The name of the trade route between China and the West
Its kings sent gifts such as giraffes to China
An area currently being explored for scientific reasons
A destination of silk and a major European capital
The modern country name for Ceylon
The historical period when China expanded maritime exploration to other regions
The author of Record of My Travels
The commander of the seven fleets
The person who wrote stories that inspired European explorers
•  Which countries reached out across the sea in the past and why?
•  What benefits and problems did those countries get from doing this?
•  What effects did reaching out across the sea in the past have on the world?
•  What do you think is the significance of the Belt and Road Initiative?