UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION
27
The aim of this initiative is to encourage cooperation and trade across the historic Silk 
Road areas, and strengthen the bonds between China and the rest of the world. Trading 
has grown greatly in recent years, and will continue to do so in years to come. China has 
invested billions in systems and services along these routes, which will help to greatly 
develop the whole area for the benefit of future trade and cultural exchange.
China has also joined its friends across the sea on other important projects. Although the 
ancient sea routes of Zheng He have been travelled many times, there are still many other 
places left to explore. In recent years, China has joined other nations on several expeditions 
to explore the Arctic. From a scientific point of view, there is an urgent need to study the 
Arctic in order to understand climate change and its effects. 
Hundreds of years on, and with the latest technology in hand, the need to trade and the desire 
to enhance relationships will drive China to reach out across the sea far into the future.

===== PAGE 35 =====
Learning About Language
1	 Write down the word that matches each definition. Then find the sentences 
containing these words in the text.
	
Choose the appropriate words from above to complete the following sentences.
Build up your vocabulary
1	
  an imaginary story or an exciting description of an event
2	
  related to the king or queen of a country
3	
  to reach an agreement by discussion
4	
  to stop taking part in an activity
5	
  to make something longer or larger
6	
  a connection between people
7	
  a level of quality, ability, etc.
8	
  a deep passage of water used as a route for ships
1	 Their common experience created a strong 
 between them.
2	 As a major figure in British politics, Churchill was in a 
 of his own.
3	 The deadline has been 
 by two days.
4	 I’m reading a book about folk 
 and ancient legends.
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the phrases in the box.
a sight to behold          in hand          withdraw from         in return
1	 Henry Norman Bethune devoted his life and profession to helping people without 
expecting anything 
.
2	 Last summer we visited an island in the Indian Ocean, whose rocky coastline and long 
golden beaches were 
.
3	 The tennis player 
 several tournaments due to injury.
4	 With lots of food and drink 
, they set off for their picnic.
3	 Complete the passage below with the correct forms of the words in the box.
find one’s way          boredom          reach out across the sea
 set sail          form the foundation          tale          motivate
In 1519, Ferdinand Magellan, a Portuguese adventurer, made the first voyage around the 
world. On 14 June 2008, nearly 500 years later, a 16-year-old American boy, Zac Sunderland, 
 on a similar journey. After 13 months, he returned with a new world record: the 
youngest person ever to sail around the world.
Zac grew up on a boat and learnt how to sail when he was four, which 
 of his 
success. As a child, Zac read a book about Robin Lee Graham who had sailed around the 
world alone as a teenager in 1965. Zac was greatly inspired by Graham’s 
. After 
his 16th birthday, Zac started making plans for his journey. Using his own money, Zac bought a 
boat and set off.
 is often a mixture of danger and 
. Zac had to 
 
through heavy storms and get by on little sleep on his journey. It was boring to stay on a boat 
all day, so Zac read lots of books! He also emailed his family using his laptop, telling them 
about his experiences around the world. 
When the journey ended, Zac’s adventure received widespread media coverage. At his press 
conference, he talked about how passion and courage made his dream come true. In his 
opinion, there’s so much that people can achieve with the right 
 and ambition. 
Just go for it!
28
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION

===== PAGE 36 =====
2	 Join the words to make sentences using infinitives. Then decide the function of 
each infinitive.
3	 Read the beginning of The Little Mermaid and use the proper forms of the 
verbs in brackets to fill in the blanks. What do you think happens next?
1	 Find all the sentences containing infinitives in the reading passage. Then mark 
their functions.
1  As the subject (S)	
2  As the predicative (P)	
3  As the object (O)
4  As the object complement (OC)	
5  As the attributive (Attr)	
6  As the adverbial (Ad)
Review useful structures 
Far out in the ocean, where the water is as clear as glass, lives the Sea King. The ocean 
is too deep 
 (measure). We may imagine there is nothing except yellow sand 
under the sea, but actually it is not rare 
 (see) the most unique flowers and 
plants  
 (dance) in the fast-moving water. In the deepest spot of all stands the 
Sea King’s castle, which has walls of coral and a roof 
 (form) of beautiful shells. 
The mother of the king, a wise woman who is proud 
 (be) born into the royal 
family, takes care of his six daughters. Among the six sea-princesses, the youngest is 
the prettiest. Although she has delicate skin like a rose-leaf and eyes as blue as the 
deepest sea, she has no feet but a fish tail just like her sisters. The most common way for 
the princesses 
 (play) all day 
long is 
 (swim) in the halls of 
the castle or among the flowers growing 
out of the walls, feeding and touching 
the fish 
 (swim) up to their 
hands through the windows. They seem 
 (not worry) about anything, 
except for the youngest, who …  
EXAMPLE
It is fun / visit an aquarium / in summer 
It is fun to visit an aquarium in summer. ( S )
1	 He / encouraged me / participate in the surfing competition 
2	 The storm / seems / be getting closer 
3	 Magellan / was the first person / sail around the world 
4	 The UN peacekeeping force / aims / maintain peace and prevent armed conflicts 
5	 The crowd / stood / applaud / scientists / for their important ocean research work 
6	 It is a good idea / tax / plastic bottles / so that people use them less 
7	 The Jiaolong manned submersible / is said / be able / reach 7 km underwater 
8	 It remains / be seen / whether or not his capsule can work 
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION
29

===== PAGE 37 =====
Using Language
Get to know about whales and other sea animals
1	 Read the poster below and discuss the questions.
2	 Listen to the head researcher talking to the 
campers at the end of the day. What three things 
were the campers asked to do?
3	 Listen to Luke’s part of the conversation again. Number the following sentences in 
the correct order. Then work out what they have done at the camp. 
1	 ​What aspect of the camp would you like best?
2	 Do you think it is important to carry out research on whales and other sea creatures? 
1	
2	
3	
WHALE 
WATCHING 
CAMP
After that, we gave the group of whales a name, and each member a number. 
They will be added to the directory so we can identify them in the future.
Most whales have slightly different fins and marks, which can help us to tell them 
apart.
Meanwhile, we also noted their location, so we can track their movements and plot 
their migration path.
Then we took pictures of their fins.
Finally, we contacted other whale research groups around the world to share the 
information with them.
1
First, we followed a group of whales with the boat.
Later, we created a database of their fins and locations.
Do not miss this opportunity to learn all about these 
amazing animals and see them at close range on their 
annual migration south to the Antarctic.
Come to our whale watching camp and learn more 
about these intelligent creatures! Listen to whales 
singing, watch them leaping out of the water, and 
observe them with our special video cameras. And to 
help us with important research, you can even become 
a member of our team.
Listen for sequence
When people talk about a series 
of actions or events happening 
in sequence of time, they often 
use certain words and phrases, 
such as first, next, then, after that, 
later, and finally.
30
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION

===== PAGE 38 =====
5	 Some of the students could not make it to the camp. Imagine you were there. Tell 
your partner about what happened, using the expressions in the box below. Your 
partner can also ask questions to find out more about what happened.
6	 Watch the video Protecting Biodiversity, and then discuss what other sea 
animals you would like to see. Talk with your partner and make a plan for a trip to 
see the animals. Your plan should include activities you would like to do.
EXAMPLE
A:	 Today we learnt about whales and whale research. First, we found some information and 
facts about whales. We used the library and the Internet.
B:	 What did you do after that?
…
First(ly), …        Second(ly), …        Third(ly), …        First of all, ...  
Then/After that/Afterwards/Next/Later on …
In the end/At last, ... 	
	
At that time …
It began when ...        Meanwhile ...        Later ...        Finally ...
Expressing sequence
4	 Listen to the conversation again and answer the questions.
1	 How many species of whales are there?
2	 What is the criterion to divide the main types of whales?
3	 What do whales use sounds for?
4	 Why do the campers take pictures of the whales’ fins?
5	 Why do they contact other research groups?
31

===== PAGE 39 =====
Using Language
Express your opinions on sea exploration 
Text 1
When people talk of exploring the sea 
more, they usually mean exploiting it. Sea 
exploration has caused many problems 
and will continue to cause more.
More exploration means more 
pollution. The Deepwater Horizon 
spilled over 200 million gallons of oil 
into the sea in 2010. Plastic pollution 
is also bad, killing many birds and fish, 
and has even been found in our tap 
water.
Mining for resources is very 
damaging, especially in the Arctic. 
Because of climate change, there is 
less ice now, which means we can 
look for more fossil fuels further north. 
But if we burn these, the ice will melt 
more and this negative cycle will 
continue. Climate change is warning 
us that something is very wrong.
Overfishing is another problem. 
Whales and dolphins are also 
hunted for their meat or for so-
called research. Although this was 
banned in 1982, some countries are 
still “murdering” these intelligent 
creatures without mercy.
The sea is home to life, not human 
beings’ possessions. It is huge, but it 
is more sensitive than we think. If we 
do not protect it, future generations 
will not forgive us.
Text 2
To truly understand our planet, we 
must explore the oceans which 
cover most of it. Opponents may 
be concerned, but sea exploration 
is important for our future. For 
example, scientific research ships 
can help address important issues 
such as climate change. We need 
to understand what is happening to 
our planet so that we can take action. 
Therefore, more research is necessary.
Understanding more about the sea 
will also help us manage its resources 
better. Logging new species will 
improve our understanding of life on 
the earth. It may help us discover new 
medicines, as well as new sources of 
food and energy. Accessing the deep 
ocean may also help us to predict 
events such as earthquakes. 
The population of the world is 
growing and we need new resources 
for future development. There are 
probably vast amounts of resources 
under the sea and ice, not just oil and 
gas but also valuable minerals. 
Of course, there are still environmental 
risks.  However, these should be 
balanced with economic needs. 
Hopefully, as technology improves, we 
may have more options for managing 
this balance.
1	 Read the two texts below and find the arguments and evidence in them.
32

===== PAGE 40 =====
2	 Look at the two charts below and decide which one supports which text.
3	 In groups, discuss the following questions and take notes.
4	 Based on your note, write an argumentative essay on sea exploration, expressing 
your opinions with supporting facts. 
Point
What point do you want to make? 
Evidence
What facts and examples can you find to support your point? How 
reliable are the sources?
Explanation
Explain how the facts support your opinion and show other opinions to 
be incorrect.
Link
Connect this point to the next point, or back to the main point of the 
essay or paragraph.
1	 The following questions may help you.
	
•  What is the purpose of sea exploration? 
	
•  How does sea exploration help us to protect the sea?
	
•  How does sea exploration cause damage to the sea?
	
•  Is there a good balance between protection and exploitation?
2	 Use the PEEL method to help structure your argument.
3	 Write your draft and exchange it with a partner.
4	 Get your feedback and revise your draft.
1	 What is your opinion about sea exploration? Do you agree with one argument more than 
the other?
2	 Has your opinion changed after reading the two texts? Why or why not?
3	 Are there any other aspects of sea exploration not mentioned that you think are important?
Decline in oil spills
1970-1979
90
80
45
36
18
50
70
30
10
  0
80
40
60
20
1980-1989
1990-1999
2000-2009
Number of oil spills (over 7 tons)
Global trends in the state of world marine 
fish stocks
90
100
50
70
30
10
  0
80
40
60
20
Percentage
1974
1984
1994
2004
1979
1989
1999
2009
2013
 Overfished
Underfished
Fully fished
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION
33

===== PAGE 41 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 Complete the passage below with the proper forms of the verbs in brackets. 
What do you think happened to the son? 
applaud      directory      opponent      murder      log
REFLECTING 
  What did you learn about the sea from this unit? 
  Which aspect about the sea would you like to learn more about? 
  What different genres of text did you read in this unit? 
  Did you have problems in studying this unit? If yes, how did you solve them?
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
1	 After finishing his workout, he updated his fitness 
.
2	 In the final match, his 
 will be stronger and more experienced.
3	 In a classical music concert, the audience 
 politely at the end of the performance.
4	 I couldn’t find your name in the telephone 
.
5	 A $5 million reward has been announced for information leading to the arrest of those 
responsible for the 
.
Have you ever seen a seal? It has a round belly with a thick skin
 (keep) itself 
warm. Its big eyes seem 
 (be) those of an innocent child. When you look into its 
eyes, you may feel closely 
 (connect) to it. 
Actually, people in ancient times did believe seals and human beings 
 (be) the 
same. As legend has it, an old couple by the sea once heard a baby 
 (cry). They 
hurried to the water, only 
 (find) a baby seal there. They took it back home, fed 
it, and raised it as their son. Gradually, the baby seal grew up, 
 (look) just like a 
human being. The old couple allowed him 
 (go) anywhere except near the sea. 
The son loved his parents so much that he promised 
 (not swim).
One day, the father went 
 (fish) out at sea, when the weather suddenly 
changed. The ship struggled on the stormy sea, 
 (roll) with each heavy 
wave. His wife watched the horrible scene, 
 (cry) hopelessly. All of 
a sudden, the son jumped into the wild sea 
 (save) his father. He 
swam as fast as lightning, just like a seal! Finally, the father was pushed 
to the shore alive, but this old couple never saw their son again.
34
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION

===== PAGE 42 =====
6	 Put everything together to complete your poster. Then give a short 
presentation to the class. 
1	 Pick a theme you want the day to be about.
overfishing	
wonders of the sea	
tourism	
biodiversity
pollution	
beautiful beaches	
coral reefs	
deep-sea exploration
Surf the Internet for stories about the sea to inspire you. You can pick a serious issue, or you 
can focus on a theme to show people how amazing the sea is.
2	 Research your theme.
Find out as much about your theme as you can. Use the Internet and your school library.
3	 Come up with a short slogan for your theme.
Choose a short, catchy title. You can also think of ways to promote your theme on social 
media.
4	 Brainstorm ideas for the design of your poster and what to include.
What do you want it to look like? What design would be most effective? What information do 
you want to include? What images do you want to use?
* Project: Create a poster for World Oceans Day
World Oceans Day takes place on 8 June every year. It is now celebrated in over 
100 countries with hundreds of special events broadcast across the globe. The day 
is marked in a variety of ways, including the launching of new campaigns and 
initiatives, and holding special events, all working to advance ocean conservation 
and education.
Young people are an important part of the project. World Oceans Day provides them 
with a platform where they can express their concerns and share their ideas.
Each year, World Oceans Day has a theme for the campaigns and events on that 
day. For example, in 2016 and 2017 the themes were “Healthy oceans, healthy 
planet” and “Our oceans, our future”, respectively.
5	 Create an event that will take place on the day.
Give a time and date for the event, and some details of what will happen.
Beach/river cleanup activity	
Zoo/aquarium tour
Art/photography competition	
A play about the sea
Film festival	
Presentations by sea scientists
Sustainable seafood lunch	
Interviews with scientists, explorers, etc.
WORLD OCEANS DAY
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION
35

===== PAGE 43 =====
* Video Time
Deep into the Sea
This video is about Kexue, China’s most 
sophisticated research vessel, which is 
designed to conduct a wide range of tasks. 
Based on Kexue, China has taken the lead 
in building a world-class platform for marine 
research.
BEFORE YOU WATCH  
Look at the pictures from the video below. What do you think these people 
are doing? 
WHILE YOU WATCH  
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Circle the best words to complete the sentences below.
1	 The sea covers over/under two-thirds of our planet.
2	 Kexue is regarded as a moving laboratory/factory on the sea.
3	 The IOCAS is the Institute/Initiative of Oceanology, Chinese Academy of Sciences/
Scientists.
4	 The Faxian vehicle has surveyed more than 3,000/400 sites and has collected 
3/3,000 tons of geological samples.
3	 Answer the following questions.
1	 When was Kexue first put into operation?
2	 What is the function of Faxian?
3	 What did IOCAS conduct research on the Western Pacific Ocean System for?
4	 Why is marine science important for China today?
AFTER  YOU WATCH  
Discuss the following questions in pairs.
1	
Human beings have explored less than 5% of the world’s oceans. Why do you think 
we have explored so little of the oceans so far?
2	
What do you think is the difference between Zheng He’s voyage 600 years ago and 
China’s sea exploration today?
1
3
4
5
6
2
36
UNIT 3  SEA EXPLORATION

===== PAGE 44 =====
As you grow older, you 
will discover that you 
have two hands, one for 
helping yourself, the other 
for helping others. 
—Sam Levenson
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about volunteering in Papua New Guinea.
2  hear and talk about types of volunteering and 
organisations.
3  give a speech about China’s aid to other 
countries. 
4  learn about volunteers at home and abroad.
    Look and discuss
1  What do you think is happening in the photo?
2  Think about the things you do to help other 
people. Write them down and share with your 
partner.
3  Share your experiences as a volunteer, if you 
have any.
SHARING
UNIT 4
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
Help the needy
Reading and Thinking
1	 A young Australian, Jo, worked for 
two years as a volunteer teacher in 
Papua New Guinea. What challenges 
do you think she might have faced?
2	 Read the blog entries by Jo. As you 
read, underline the parts of the text 
you read slowly. Then compare your 
reading pace with a partner.
When reading a passage, adjust your speed to 
get the most out of it. If the material is easy or 
familiar,  you can read through it quickly. If it is 
difficult or contains useful details, read it a bit 
slower and try to understand more.
Adjust reading speed
38