UNIT 4  SHARING
VOLUNTEERING IN THE BUSH
  8 March
I just got a parcel from home! It took about two weeks to arrive, and it was a bit damaged, but it was so 
nice to get some sweets and jam from home; I’ve been dying to have some of my favourite sweets, and it’s 
always nice to get mail!
So I’ve been here in the jungle for about a month now. My secondary 
school is a bush school. The classrooms are made of bamboo, with 
clay floors and roofs of grass. It takes me only a few minutes to walk 
to school down a dusty track covered in weeds. When I reach the 
school grounds, I’m greeted by a chorus of “good morning” from the 
boys. Unlike students in our country, these boys do not wear cotton 
uniforms, and many of them also have to walk a long way, sometimes 
for up to two hours, just to get to school.
There’s no electricity, running water or even textbooks, not to mention 
laptops, tablets, or other modern devices! All the students have are pencils, rubbers, and paper. I’m still 
trying to adapt to these conditions. I’ve had to become much more imaginative in my teaching. Science is 
my most challenging subject as my students have no concept of doing experiments. There is no equipment, 
and since there isn’t even a washroom, if I need water I have to carry it from my house in a basin! It’s 
important not to be too rigid about rules here, too. The other day I was showing the boys a chemistry 
experiment when, before I knew it, the mixture was bubbling out of the test tube spilling everywhere! The 
class became a circus as the boys, who had never come across anything like this before, started jumping 
out of the windows. Sometimes I wonder how relevant chemistry is to these students—few will ever become 
chemists—and most will be going back to their villages after Year 8 anyway. To be honest, I doubt whether I’m 
making any difference to these boys’ lives at all.
  17 April  
Last weekend I made my first visit to a remote village, home to one of our students, Tombe. Another teacher 
and I walked for two and a half hours to get there—first, up a mountain from where we had fantastic views, 
and then down a shaded path to the valley below. When we arrived at the village, Tombe’s mother, Kiak, 
saw us coming and started crying “ieee ieee”. We shook hands with all the villagers. Everyone seemed to be 
related to Tombe.
Tombe’s father, Mukap, a man with a strong jaw and a wrinkled forehead, led us to his house, a low, round 

===== PAGE 46 =====
3	 Answer the following questions.
5	 In groups, discuss these questions.
4	 Analyse Jo’s impressions of the school and the village.
Positive aspect
Negative aspect
The students value education
No running water or electricity
1	 What do you think “the bush” means?
2	 What has been Jo’s most challenging subject to teach? Why?
3	 What did Jo notice about the homes in the village she visited?
4	 What did Jo notice after the meal?
5	 What is Jo’s general impression of the place and people there?
1	 Jo felt it was a privilege to have spent a day with Tombe’s family. If you were Jo, how do 
you think you would have felt? Why?
2	 What are the differences between the school you go to and the one described in the 
passage?
3	 Would you like to become a volunteer teacher? Why or why not?
UNIT 4  SHARING
39
bamboo hut with no windows, with a door just big enough 
to get through, and with grass sticking out of the roof—this 
shows it is a man’s house. Such housing is dark inside so 
it took time for our eyes to adjust. Fresh grass had been 
laid on the floor and there was a platform for Jenny and 
me to sleep on. There was a fireplace in the centre of the 
hut. The only possessions I could see were one broom, a 
few saucers, a kettle, cups, pans, and a couple of jars.
Mukap built a fire outside and laid stones on it to heat. He 
then placed the hot stones in an empty oil drum with kau 
kau (sweet potato), ripe corn, and greens. He then covered the vegetables with banana leaves and left them 
to steam. It smelled delicious. We ate inside the hut sitting round the fire. I loved listening to the family talking 
softly to each other in their language, even though I could not participate much in the conversation. Luckily, 
Tombe interpreted for us.
Later, I noticed a can standing upside down on the grill over the fire. After a while, Tombe threw it out of the 
doorway. Tombe told me that the can was heated to dry out the leftover food. His family believes that leftovers 
attract bad spirits in the night, so any leftover food is dried up in a can and the can is then thrown out of the hut.
We left the village the next morning after many goodbyes and firm handshakes. My muscles were aching 
and my knees shaking as we dragged ourselves down the mountain towards home. That evening I fell 
happily into bed. It was such a privilege to have spent a day with Tombe’s family. 

===== PAGE 47 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Complete the word puzzle with words from the blog entries. Can you find the 
hidden message? 
2	 Xu Yuan is a volunteer in Ghana. What does she think of the country and 
experience? Complete the passage with the words below.  
3	 Divide the following words into groups. Explain how you have grouped them. 
Then add more words to the groups. 
4	 Imagine you are going to donate three things to poor children in the 
countryside. What will you donate and why? 
lack    secondary    housing    right    drag    kettle
jam  laptop  knee  bacon  textbook  tablet  paper  rubber  jaw  wrinkle  forehead 
saucer  kettle  pan  jar  grill  corn  cup  leftover  pencil  muscle  sweets
	
 A  L
	
J  M
	
K    L E
	
C O    N
	
T   L  T
	
  B B  
	
C   R U 
	
 A  C  R
	
  S  R   M
	
P  R   L
	
F O  E    D
	
C   C  S
	
S  C   D   
	  O  S I N 
Hidden message:
Xu Yuan, a 52-year-old Chinese volunteer in Ghana, was interviewed on a TV programme. 
According to Xu, the 
 conditions in Ghana are not that bad. However, she admitted 
that she once had a memorable experience plugging holes in her roof in order to keep the 
rain out. Xu said, “Actually, I don’t really care about my living conditions. The only thing that 
has made me uncomfortable has been the 
 of hot water.” She regrets not bringing a 
 to Ghana to boil the water she needs. Some of the medicine she has brought with 
her works better with hot water. But any discomfort is 
 to helping the needy, she 
believes. Xu enjoys her volunteer experience and considers it a good opportunity to 
 
herself out of her comfort zone and to explore the world. “One of my dreams is to work in 
Africa and continue to help the disabled after I resign from my job. I think everyone deserves 
the 
 to be happy,” she said.
40
UNIT 4  SHARING

===== PAGE 48 =====
Review useful structures
1	 Identify the phrases in the following sentences and state their functions. 
Mark noun phrases as NP, verb phrases VP, adverbial phrases AdvP, 
adjective phrases AdjP, and prepositional phrases PrepP.
2	 Complete the passage with the phrases below in their proper forms. 
3	 Imagine you are an editor of a volunteer website. Add phrases to the 
following advertisement to make it more exciting.
beautiful modern road    a chorus of    dusty track    straight towards      
a large amount of investment    with dangerous disease
EXAMPLE
My secondary school is a bush school. 
NP (subject)                NP (predicative)
1	 I’ve been dying to have some of my favourite sweets, and it’s always nice to get mail!
2	 The mixture was bubbling out of the test tube spilling everywhere!
3	 Tombe’s father, Mukap, a man with a strong jaw and a wrinkled forehead, led us to his 
house.
4	 He then placed the hot stones in an empty oil drum with kau kau (sweet potato), ripe corn, 
and greens.
5	 Later, I noticed a can standing upside down on the grill over the fire.
6	 My muscles were aching and my knees shaking as we dragged ourselves down the 
mountain towards home.
China has offered 
 to many countries in its Belt and Road Initiative. In the Congo, 
many 
 have been transformed into 
 since then. Trains run 
 Europe 
from China, and to China from Europe, bringing new jobs and opportunities to both ends. 
Chinese healthcare workers have also been sent to provide aid to places 
. Despite all 
the difficulties involved in this project, these efforts have been greeted with 
 support 
from the locals.
In order to ease suffering in Guinea, volunteers are needed 
to provide healthcare information. As a volunteer, you will 
be responsible for organising lectures, preparing posters, 
and visiting schools and families. There is no doubt that 
these activities will leave you with unforgettable memories. 
The programme will last for one year or more, depending 
on your performance.
You need to be over 18 and able to communicate in 
English. You don’t need to have overseas experience, but 
you should be friendly and outgoing. 
Improving Health in Guinea
If you are interested in volunteering, please 
speak to our representative online.
UNIT 4  SHARING
41

===== PAGE 49 =====
Using Language
1    Have you or someone you know ever worked as a volunteer? Tell your partner 
about the experience.
2    Listen to the conversation and complete 
the table below.
3    Listen to the conversation again and then answer the following questions.
4    Think about the following questions and write down your ideas.
5    In groups, talk about ways to help others.
Meet student volunteers
An example is a thing, person, or situation 
that helps explain or illustrate what one is 
talking about. An example is nearly always 
introduced by words such as like, such as, 
for example, for instance, to illustrate, and to 
demonstrate.
Recognise examples
1	
Why does Tony want to join the meeting for student volunteers?
2	
What is the objective of the meeting today?
3	
What kind of volunteer work did the students do last year?
4	
What kind of volunteer work does Tony’s entire school do every year?
5	
Who suggests going to the children’s hospital for this year’s volunteer project?
1	
Do you think students doing volunteer work is of any use? Why or why not?
2	
In your opinion, which is better, giving people things, time, or money? Why do you think so? 
1	
What kinds of help do you think people need? How do you think volunteers could help?
Student 
suggestions for
volunteer project
donations for 
helping to 
spending time with 
Volunteer 
activities at 
Tony’s school
raise 
serve 
go to 
Final decision for
volunteer project
Place
What are the needs?
How could volunteers help?
Neighbourhood
School
City/Town
Country
42
UNIT 4  SHARING

===== PAGE 50 =====
Listening and Speaking
2	
What kinds of skills and qualities could you offer as a volunteer?
3	
Discuss where and how you can help.
	
 •  Where would it be possible for you and your classmates to volunteer? 
	
 •  What kind of volunteer work could you and your classmates do, based on your group’s 
skills and qualities?
Skill
Quality
We might try ...	
Couldn’t you/we ...?	
Perhaps we could ...
May I suggest that ...?	
Would you consider ...?	
My advice would be to ...
Wouldn’t it be better if ...?	
If I may suggest an idea, ...	
It might be a good idea to ...
I’d like to suggest/recommend that ...	
How does the idea of ... appeal to you?
Making suggestions
  
Pronunciation
Jessie:	 Hi, Susan! Did you see the animal shelter advertisement? I think it’d be great for 
our volunteering project! 
Susan: 	 Hello, Jessie. Yes, I did see it. I’d love to help out in a shelter. Think of all those 
cute, little animals! 
Jessie: 	 Exactly, and it would also look great on our CVs. But maybe it’s too good to be 
true … 
Susan: 	 Yeah, what if we have to clean out the smelly cages? I’d hate that! 
Jessie: 	 Well, we can ask for gloves. How about you clean the outside of the cages, and I’ll 
clean the inside?
Susan: 	 Thanks, Jessie, you’re a true friend! Anyway, we should check the timing. Did the 
ad say Saturday afternoons? I’m usually busy on Saturday afternoons.   
Jessie: 	 No, it said on Sundays, and in the mornings. So let’s not just talk about it—let’s 
do it! It’s so exciting—do you like cats best, or dogs?
Susan:  	Oh, hey wait, Jessie, do you think it matters that I’m allergic to cats? And what if 
there are snakes?
1	 Read the conversation below. Decide which type of stress the words in bold 
show: 1) strong emotion; 2) emphasis of important information; 3) correction 
of a mistake; 4) contrast or comparison. 
2	 Listen to the conversation and then practise it with a partner. 
UNIT 4  SHARING
43

===== PAGE 51 =====
1    Zhan Bingbing took part in an English 
speech contest. Read the speech 
transcript and answer the questions 
on page 45.
Hello! My name is Zhan Bingbing. 
Lately, all of us have seen Chinese people on 
TV in far-off places in the world, helping other 
countries to develop. We see Chinese workers building roads in the Congo, a port in Pakistan, 
railways in Panama, and an airport in Sri Lanka. And we see Chinese miners, oil workers, 
agricultural experts, mechanics, and doctors working in nearly every corner of the world. And 
some people may ask, “Is it worth it? Why help people overseas when China has many areas that 
are still in need of development?”
I had the same questions myself. But for me, it was much more personal. You see, my mother is 
a medical doctor, and for the last two years, she has been working as a volunteer consultant in 
Tanzania, Africa, as a part of a medical team sent by the Chinese government. 
To be honest, when my mother first left for Africa, I was upset. My mother cooked me dinner every 
night, and she took good care of me. But more importantly, she was my best friend. We talked 
together, we spent our leisure time together, and except for school and work, we were never 
apart. So I was unhappy about her leaving without even asking for my input. 
But then I began to hear about the work she was doing in Tanzania, a country that has many 
health problems, and now I am singing a different tune. Many dangerous diseases which are rare 
in China are quite commonly contracted in Tanzania. And, while the country is quite beautiful and 
has much natural wealth, many of the people are quite poor and live without things we take for 
granted, such as electricity, running water, cars and good transport systems, and supermarkets. 
One project that my mother worked on was helping to build a cardiac hospital. Prior to this, if a 
Tanzanian had a heart condition and needed surgery, they would have to go abroad. Since this 
was quite expensive, many people went without medical treatment and some even died. Now, not 
only are Tanzanians helped by the hospital, but people in neighbouring countries are helped as 
well. It has made a big difference to their lives. My mother also does a circuit of the rural villages 
to provide medical treatment, help those with disabilities, and provide consultation and training 
for local doctors. In addition, her team has given patients a new malaria treatment invented in 
China, and this has saved many lives.
Today, I want to relay to you that I’m proud of the work my mother has done, and I am now 
supportive of it. Is her work worth it? Yes, to the lives of the people she is helping, it is worth it. 
Make a speech about China’s aid to other countries
Using Language
44
UNIT 4  SHARING

===== PAGE 52 =====
4  	 Exchange your draft with a partner and revise the draft using your partner’s 
comments. 
5	 Present your speech and listen to your classmates’ speeches. As a class, vote on the 
best one.
1	
What are some examples of the work that Chinese people do to help others overseas?
2	
Why was Bingbing upset when her mother went to Tanzania?
3	
What are some of the problems people face in Tanzania?
4	
What are two things that Bingbing’s mother is helping with?
5	
Why is this work worth it?
1	
What is the key rhetorical question used in this speech?
2	
What is the answer to this rhetorical question?
3	
What does the speaker use to get her message across?
	
 a case study	
 a hypothetical example
	
 a joke	
 a personal story
	
 an analysis of the history and causes of the issue	
 facts and data
4	
How did Bingbing’s feelings about the topic change, and what caused this change?
5	
How does the speech end?
1	
In groups, brainstorm a list of possible causes that you could talk about.
2	
In pairs, go over the list and discuss these points:
	
•  Which, if any, of the causes do you have a personal connection with?
	
•  What personal story could you tell in relation to that cause? 
	
•  How did that affect your opinions on the issue?
	
•  What rhetorical question could you use to begin your speech?
	
•  What is the answer to that rhetorical question?
	
•  What action do you want people to take as a result of your speech?
3	
Using what you have discussed, write a short speech.
2    Study the features of the speech to answer the questions below.
3   Write a speech about China’s aid to other countries.
But by any criteria this work is worth it to us as well, because it shows that we are global citizens 
interested in world stability, and that we feel responsible for others and are ready to build a 
community with a shared future for mankind. Everyone deserves a fair chance in life. When I think 
of all the things that we as Chinese citizens can be most proud of, helping others comes at the top 
of this list. Now that I understand how important my mother’s work is, I’ve decided to become a 
volunteer myself to help people in other lands. In the future, I pray that you will do the same. 
Thank you!
UNIT 4  SHARING
45

===== PAGE 53 =====
1	 Complete a news report using the correct forms of the words in the box. Then 
make a news headline for it.
2	 Expand the following sentences by adding different phrases. Try to make these 
sentences more vivid.
Assessing Your Progress
  What kind of volunteer work have you heard about before? What kind of volunteer 
work in this unit impressed you the most? 
  What story can you tell about China’s contribution to the development of the 
world?
  What do you think you can contribute to the cause of building a shared future for 
mankind?
  What can you do to improve your public speaking skills?
  Overall, I thought this unit was 
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
contract  disability  tune  input  share  mechanic  stability  criterion  consultation
Many of us have worked as volunteers before. Some have experience as 
, repairing 
and maintaining machines. Others are experienced medical workers who have volunteered 
to help those with 
. This summer, one Chinese volunteer, Liu Fei, will serve as a 
management 
 for AIDS projects in an African country. Liu has never been there, and 
his impression of the country is that it is developing rapidly, but suffers from much 
 
and violence. Many people there have 
 AIDS. Liu will work with a local organisation 
engaging in AIDS prevention. Liu’s path to Africa was long and bumpy. Although he had met 
the 
 for the volunteer application, his family was opposed to his choice at first. It 
took Liu some time to explain the importance of building a 
 future for mankind. 
Ultimately, his family decided to sing the same 
 as Liu and respected his right to 
choose his own path. Liu is looking forward to sharing his knowledge and skills with needy 
communities. He hopes his 
 can make a difference in distant Africa.
1	
The chemist is doing an experiment.
2	
A rat is chasing a cat.
3	
A train is crossing a bridge.
4	
Susan placed the cup on the saucer and swallowed the capsule.
5	
I drag myself off the bed.
6	
A tree shades the farmer.
7	
The president is relaying his ambition to the audience.
46
UNIT 4  SHARING

===== PAGE 54 =====
1	 Study the posters below.
2	 In groups, decide on the volunteer work that you would like to do. Discuss the 
following questions.
3	 Create a poster to explain more about your volunteer work, and then present it to 
the class.
4	 Take a class vote on the best three posters.
•  In what way could you help others?
•  How could others participate in your activities?
•  What business could you set up to help others?
*Project: Create a poster for volunteer work
Who are we?
People’s Shoes is a company committed to 
creating a better world. 
What do we do?
For every pair of shoes you buy, we donate 
a pair of shoes to someone in need. We also 
provide surgery and medical treatment to 
people with eye problems, and water systems 
to countries with unsafe drinking water.
Where do we work?
We work in 70 countries around the world.
How can you help?
You can buy our products, so we can give to 
others. 
Who are we?
We are an organisation whose goal is to help 
people abroad through exchange with China.
What do we do? 
Business or organisation employees from 
China and another country trade places for 
a period of time. This helps people in both 
countries to learn from each other’s expertise, 
and to broaden their cultural understanding.
Where do we work?
We work in Asia, Latin America, and Africa.
How can you help?
You can suggest an exchange that you want 
to take part in. We will help to arrange and 
pay for it.
CHINA 
EXCHANGE
PEOPLE’S SHOES
UNIT 4  SHARING
47

===== PAGE 55 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
What kinds of things do you think Most donates to others? Tick the boxes 
below.
	
 clothes	
 computers	
 food	
 medicine
	
 money	
 time	
 toilet paper	
 toys	
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Answer these questions. 
	
1	 How far is the Roma Community Centre from Budapest?
	
2	 How many families will be helped by their donations to the Roma Community Centre?
	
3	 How many members does Most currently have?
	
4	 What three things do they plan to do at the refugee centre in Austria?
3	 Complete the quotes with words you hear in the video. 
	
1	 Domonkos Sera: We feel a lot better if we know that we’re not just 
 
we have in Budapest but also 
 somewhere else in the country.
	
2	 Mark Takats: We feel it’s kind of an obligation to ... to help those 
 but 
that we were.
	
3	 Laci Siroki: It’s good to see youngsters from Budapest that feel an obligation to do 
something in this country, to 
, and 
.
	
4	 Jihan: I would like to be involved also in most of the activities they do 
, 
like going to different 
 just to help poor people.
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	
What motivates these young people to help others?
2	
How do you think their own lives are changed by helping others?
3	
In the video, they are helping the Roma and people at a refugee centre. Are there people like this 
in your city or town who need help? What can you do to help them?
Breaking Volunteering Boundaries
This video is about Most, a charity run by 
young people in Budapest, Hungary, a country 
in Eastern Europe. One group this charity helps 
is the Roma. The Roma (often called “Gypsies”) 
are an ethnic group in Europe that is poor and 
often discriminated against.  
* Video Time
48
UNIT 4  SHARING

===== PAGE 56 =====
The future depends on 
what you do today.
— Mahatma Gandhi
LAUNCHING 
YOUR CAREER
UNIT 5
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about how to know yourself better 
through self-assessment.
2  hear and talk about going to university and 
deciding on a major.
3  write a letter of application and a CV.
4  learn about how to make the most of the last 
summer break of high school. 
    Look and discuss
1  How would you interpret the picture?
2  What would you like to be in the future? 
What careers interest you? 
3  What factors will you take into consideration 
when you plan your career?
49

===== PAGE 57 =====
Get a head start on your future career
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
1	 What are some of the ways that can help people decide which career is appropriate for them?
2	 Is it essential that teenagers decide on a career before they become adults? Why?
Charts and graphs are a great way to 
convey a wide range of information in a 
limited space. To understand them, first 
read the title and then the labels on the 
edges of the chart (often called the x-axis, 
y-axis, and the key/legend).
Use charts and graphs 
2	 Skim the text and find the main advice given to readers.
As an adult, one of the first questions you are asked 
when meeting someone new is, “What do you do?” 
This is because your career is a very important part 
of who you are. The career you have defines your 
life, and so taking time to think about it is an essential 
exercise for young people.
The best time to start thinking about possible careers 
is while you are still at school, before you make any 
choices about your further education. This, however, is not always easy. Some people know 
what they want to do from a young age, but many others just have a few ideas bouncing 
around in their heads.
One of the most effective ways to get some insight on a possible career path is to complete a 
“career aptitude test”. The results of the test will tell you about your strengths and interests, and 
some tests also suggest careers that you may be suited to. Having this information will provide 
you with a better chance of finding a job you like. There are many free tests online, so give one 
a try. Getting a head start in considering your future career may help you for the rest of your life. 
You don’t want to look back in years to come and say, “I wish I had thought more about what I 
really wanted to do.”
There are many different 
kinds of career aptitude 
tests.  Some ask questions 
about your personal interests 
and attitudes. Others focus 
more on asking you to 
rate different kinds of work 
scenarios, like working as 
a librarian or a lawyer. Of 
course, while completing 
these sorts of tests, it is very 
important to be honest—and 
don’t worry—there are no 
right or wrong answers.
One popular test asks the 
participants to grade their 
preferences for a variety of 
work tasks. Their answers are 
then analysed and divided up between six different types of work personalities. The participant 
is then given a chart showing their score for each type of work personality. The top three scores 
WORKING OUT WHAT YOU WANT TO DO
50