UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 58 =====
are used to make a code that 
indicates the participant’s overall 
work personality. This code is then 
used to generate a list of career 
suggestions.
The career suggestions are also 
based on your education and 
experience level, but you can 
look at higher-level careers as 
well, which is very useful for high 
school students. For example, you 
could look at the basic careers 
to see what work you might like 
now, and then look at the more advanced careers so you know what you may like to aim for in 
the future. This is a great tool to help plan your career and let you know what targets you need 
to reach to get there.
In conclusion, career aptitude tests are clearly a very useful tool. However, it is important to 
remember that they are only meant for guidance. The secret to a good career is finding 
something that you are passionate about. So try a few tests online and start thinking about your 
future career right now!
3	 Read the text again and answer these questions. 
5	 Work in groups. Discuss these questions. 
4	 Look at these jobs and then decide on which work personality type they most 
closely relate to. Add more jobs to each category.
1	
What is one of the most effective ways of helping you see which careers may be right for 
you?
2	
What is very important when you are completing the test?
3	
According to the participant’s work personality code, what careers would you recommend?
4	
Do you agree with the text when it says “The secret to a good career is finding something 
that you are passionate about”? Give your reasons.
1	
Would you like to take a career aptitude test? Why or why not?
2	
What could be some problems with this sort of test? What other things could you do to 
help you decide on possible future careers?
engineer  mechanic  dentist  biologist  surgeon  astronomer  actor  director
detective  graphic designer  photographer  nurse  teacher  waitress 
restaurant manager  estate agent  accountant  police spy  librarian  secretary
Realistic
Investigative
Artistic
Social
Enterprising
Conventional
R	:	 Hands on, active, technical 
 I	:	 Observant, intellectual 
A	:	 Creative, imaginative, 
original 
S	:	 Helpful, people-oriented, 
responsible 
E	:	 Persuasive, confident 
C	:	 Organised, detail-oriented 
Your test results are below. Your work personality code is A-I-R.
Work personality types
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER
51

===== PAGE 59 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Complete these sentences with words from the reading text. Then write down 
your own dream career and give reasons.
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words you have learnt 
in this unit. Circle the part of speech. Then think of more words that can be 
used in both noun and verb forms. 
3	 Use the words in the box to complete the following excerpt from a student’s speech.
commit    bounce around    rather than    come to a conclusion
define    in common    radium    had a great influence on
	
Probably everyone dreams of having a great career, but first let’s 
 what this 
means. When thinking about what makes a career great, many ideas may 
 
in your head, such as the desire for money, power, or fame. Different people might have 
different opinions about this, but wouldn’t it be kind of greedy to focus on money and fame 
 on something more meaningful? Please close your eyes and think of someone 
professional and successful. It could be a famous entrepreneur, a great leader, a scientist or an 
artist, or a teacher who 
 you. My choice would be Marie Curie, who discovered 
. For me, she is great not just because she was world-famous, but because she 
made great contributions to mankind. Being a female scientist was much less common in her 
time, but in spite of this she devoted her life to her career. So I 
 that if you want 
a great career, you need to 
 yourself to something meaningful. I believe all great 
careers have this 
.
1	
The first time I observed the process of water being split into oxygen and 
, I 
was deeply attracted by the charm of chemistry. So I want to become a chemist in the future.
2	
My aunt developed 
 cancer three years ago. Seeing her suffering makes 
me want to become a doctor to protect people from such diseases.
3	
I want to become a 
 because I think fairness and justice is of great 
importance to society, and I hope I can make some contribution in that respect.
4	
I have always been passionate about books, so I want to be a 
. By 
providing a comfortable reading environment and good books, I hope more people can enjoy 
reading.
5	
I always feel amazed when I see my grandfather’s huge medicine chest with countless small 
 that store many herbs. Now I am studying Chinese medicine and I hope I 
can be an expert in this field, too. 
1	
Hearing the news that he had made the school team, David joyfully 
 (n., v.) the 
ball against the wall.
2	
The old basketball looked very used and had lost its 
 (n., v.).  
3	
The zoologists set up 
 (n., v.) cameras in the panda reserve. 
4	
There was a huge debate about whether the reporter should be accused of 
 (n., v.) 
on the star couple. 
52
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 60 =====
Review useful structures
1	 Find the following types of sentences in the reading text. 
2	 Change these short sentences into long sentences. Pay attention to the 
connectors you need to use.
3	 Complete the sentences using what, which, that, who, and how. Then put the 
sentences into the correct order to make a complete passage.
4	 Read the two profiles below. Write a paragraph about one of them or any other 
person you admire. Try to make the sentences work together effectively. 
1 	 Career guidance ought to be included at high school. The school should also offer a work 
experience programme. 
2 	 Dreaming of becoming somebody great is easy. Working to achieve your dream can be 
quite hard. 
3 	 You never know where you’ll be working in the future. Learn as much as possible. Study a 
foreign language. It is wise to do these things for the sake of your future. 
4 	 Social occupations require communicating with people. This often involves helping or 
providing service to other people. 
5 	 AI is developing rapidly. Lawyers, teachers, librarians, drivers, and receptionists may find 
their jobs replaced by AI in the future. Many people believe this to be true.
A compound sentence    B complex sentence	    C compound-complex sentence
Advice on Making a Career Plan
A 	 The plan will require you to focus on 
 you want to do and 
 
to achieve it.
B 	 A career plan makes you think about your future, including 
careers interest you most and 
 skills and trainings you will need to 
succeed.
C 	 Of course, the CV should be tailored to match the careers in your plan, 
 will leave you well prepared to make the most of all opportunities 
 become available to you. 
D 	 Finally, for useful information on 
 to decide on careers and 
 
to put in your CV, find some websites 
 specialise in career advice 
or go to someone 
 can help. 
E 	 Along with your career plan, you should also think about a CV, 
 
is essential for showing your potential employers your skills and 
experiences. 
F 	 These two things are 
 you should start thinking about right now, 
as they will safeguard your future, 
 is important to everyone.
	
Karl Marx; 1818 –1883; born in Germany, died in London; studied law and philosophy; philosopher 
and thinker, economist, historian, sociologist, revolutionary socialist; creator of Marxism, founder of 
international communism, co-writer of The Communist Manifesto
	
Zhong Yang; 1964 –2017; botanist, professor at Fudan University; dedicated his life to research on 
seeds; travelled to places which no other botanists had ever been to; spent years in remote and 
primitive areas searching for and collecting seeds
1
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER
53

===== PAGE 61 =====
Using Language
1    Look at the pictures below. Discuss in pairs which university major each picture 
might show.
2    Listen to the conversation and tick the chart according to what is needed to get 
into a good university in each country.
3    Listen to the conversation again, and take notes on what each student would like 
to study and why.  
Choose a university major 
Bio-medical engineering 
	
Computer game design 
Cybersecurity 
 	
Data science 
 	
Public health 
 	
Robotics 
 	
Requirement
China
UK
USA
Get a good grade
Pass the entrance exam
Write an essay
Student
Chosen major
Reason
Liu Ming 
Susan 
Olivia 
1
4
5
6
2
3
54
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 62 =====
Listening and Speaking
Expressing choices, wishes, intentions, and opinions
I’d choose … because …	
I plan/hope/wish to …
If possible, I’d really like to …	
My goal/dream is to …
I’m not sure if that suits you, because …	
I’ve always wanted to …
I think that is really difficult because …
I think you are really suited to that because …
That’s a good choice, but I think you should …
Are you sure that’s a good choice? Have you thought about …?
I’m not sure what I want to study yet, but right now I’m thinking about … because …
5    Work in groups. Discuss these questions.
6    In pairs, tell each other about the major(s) you would like to choose. Use the 
expressions below to help you.
4	 Listen again and answer the questions below. 
When we speak, we often refer to 
someone else’s opinion or what 
we have heard, read, or been told. 
When expressing this in speech, 
we use phrases such as I heard/
read that …,  according to …,  I was 
told that …, etc.
Identify references
1 	 What did Liu Ming say about cybersecurity and data 
science?
2 	 What did Susan say she was told?
3 	 What did Olivia say they need to do to get into good 
universities?
1 	 Do you agree with Olivia’s parents when they say that a person’s career might depend on 
what university they get into? Why or why not? 
2 	 Do you agree that there is no point studying something that you like but you are not very 
good at? Give your reasons.
1	 Read the texts and then answer the questions below.  
1 	 What are these three different texts about? What type of texts are they? 
2 	 What kind of person is required for the job? 
3 	 What experience does the applicant have with foreign languages? How has the applicant 
displayed her knowledge of Chinese culture?
Apply for a summer job
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER
55
Are you an active and outgoing person? Are you passionate about 
Chinese culture? Would you like to meet and help young people from 
other countries?
The Frog & Fox Summer Camp Council is looking for enthusiastic high 
school students to join our team as camp helpers at our summer 
camp next year! Our camp is located in a beautiful area near a quiet 
canal, where you will sleep in tents under the stars. 
We are building a team of keen young people to help us attend to 
hundreds of students from all over the world. You will be required 
to supervise and/or help out in a variety of tasks
1 and recreational 
activities
2.
SUMMER 
CAMP 
HELPERS 
WANTED!

===== PAGE 63 =====
Successful applicants will ideally have the following: 
  •  a good level of English;
  •  good organisational and teamwork skills;
  •  a passion for Chinese and international culture;
  •  experience with animals;
  •  a friendly, welcoming attitude, and good handwriting!
Send your CV and cover letter to: receptionist@FAFSC.com (FYI: Applications can also 
be made on paper or disk.)
1 Keep the parking area clean, guide new guests to the reception area, etc.
2 Camel rides, barbecue & fry, calligraphy, purse sewing, knitting with wool, etc.
Dear Sir/Madam,
I would like to apply for the position of camp helper. Please find my CV attached.
I believe I would be a valuable addition to your team. My English is at an intermediate level, 
and I have travelled to several English-speaking countries. I have also helped to organise a 
three-day tour of my city for visiting exchange students.
I have experience in working with animals, and I have also volunteered at a local library to 
help organise the children’s section. I am a team player and I enjoy working with others. I have 
been captain of my school table tennis team for two years, so I know how to lead and decide 
on priorities.	
With my proficiency in Chinese calligraphy, I could also conduct classes for your visitors to 
help them learn more about this beautiful aspect of Chinese culture.
The prospect of welcoming exchange students to our country is very exciting, and I am keen 
to use my skills to give them a warm welcome and an experience they will always remember.
I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Yours faithfully,
Kelly Xu
Using Language
56
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 64 =====
2    Find the details of these requirements in the job advertisement, and report your 
findings to the class. 
3    How does the applicant respond to each of the job requirements? Do you think 
she is a good match for the job? Why?
4    Think of a job you like. Write an application letter and a CV. Try to include the 
following points. 
5    In pairs, read your partner’s application letter and CV. Use the checklist to help 
him/her improve them.
6    Take back your letter and CV and revise them.
	 Did your partner explain clearly how his/her skills/experience/personality relate to 
the job? 
 	Did your partner list anything special about himself/herself? 
	 If you were the employer, would you hire your partner? If not, why? 
	
•  Personality and attitude	
•  Language skills	
•  Experience and skills
	
•  Your skills	
•  Your experience	
•  Your personality
	
•  What the job means to you	
•  What special things you can offer or bring to the job
   
16 Xinhua Road
Hangzhou
Mobile: 1XX 6616 5555 
Email: kellyxu888@exmail.cn
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE
2019–Present	
Plan and teach after-school classical calligraphy classes
	
	
•  Design classroom activities, provide feedback
2018–2019	
Worked during holidays at local pet shop
	
	
•  Cleaned cages, checked and changed flea collars, helped customers
2017	
	
Visited UK on high school exchange programme
	
	
•  Experienced British culture, demonstrated Chinese culture
2016	
	
Volunteered at local library
	
	
•  Assisted librarians in organising children’s library section	
	
	
Helped organise city tour for visiting students from Canada
	
	
•  Helped manage tour finances and receipts
EDUCATION 
09.2018–Present    Hangzhou XXX Senior High School
09.2015–07.2018    Hangzhou XXX Junior High School
SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS
  PETS 3 English qualification	
	
	
  
  Certificate in Chinese Calligraphy
INTERESTS & ACTIVITIES
  Chinese calligraphy	 	
  Classical literature	
	
  Table tennis
  Amateur photography      	
  Detective novels 	
	
  Programming  
   Kelly Xu
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER
57

===== PAGE 65 =====
Assessing Your Progress
	 How can you use the information from this unit in your life? 
	 What other information related to this unit’s topic would you like to learn about?
	 What parts of this unit were the most interesting? Why?
	 What difficulties did you or your classmates have in studying this unit? How did 
you overcome them? What advice or help did you give each other?  
  Overall, I thought this unit was 	
 interesting 
 useful 
 so-so 
 difficult.    
REFLECTING 
1    Use the correct forms of the words in the box to complete the following sentences. 
Then match the sentences with the possible jobs on the right.
2    The following is a draft of a guide for high school students. Try to improve it and 
use long sentences where you think they are required. 
1 	 Tom enjoys spending time with middle school students, and he 
is really interested in 
.
2 	 Jane broke her 
 during a competition last week and 
needed a few months’ rest.
3 	 John prevents uninvited visitors from entering a business 
.
4 	 In order to turn the desert into green land that is able to produce 
crops, Dr Zhang designed a 50 km 
.
5 	 Simon needs to submit his article about the 
 meeting 
before midnight tonight. 
6 	 Jackson’s 
 fish is popular with the restaurant’s regular 
customers.
estate    geometry    wrist    fry    canal    council
cook
maths teacher
reporter/journalist    
athlete
security guard
engineer
High school may be the most important experience in your life. You are becoming a 
young adult. You are old enough to take on more responsibilities and make very important 
choices. Some of these choices could greatly affect your life. Try your best to study hard. It 
doesn’t matter whether you will go to a university or college. It doesn’t matter whether you 
will go to a vocational school or start work. You have to work hard. It doesn’t matter what 
dreams you have for your future. Dreams will not make themselves come true. You need 
to try your best and prepare. A wise choice is to prepare yourself with a good education. 
You need to make sure your time and energy are not wasted. Remember, the knowledge 
you acquire and the diligent attitude you develop in high school will be invaluable in the 
real world. Time flies like an arrow! Working hard right now will prepare you well for your life 
in the future. 
Make High School Count!
58
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 66 =====
1    Think about six careers and write them in the order of their importance. Then in 
groups, report to the others and explain why. 
2    Think about three careers that interest you most. Complete the chart below and 
then introduce your careers to your group.
3    Choose one career from above and prepare an outline of a speech about how you 
plan to reach that career goal. Start by completing the mind map below. 
4    Use your outline to write a speech. Add some pictures to help illustrate your 
writing. Use the following expressions to help you.
5    Read your speeches within the group and vote for the best one. Then have the 
winner make the speech to the class.
Skills
Education 
& Qualifications
Goals
Short term
Long term
Career
Why the career is important
1
2
3
4
5
6
The career that interests me
Why I would like this career
1
2
3
*Project: Make a speech about your future career
My chosen/dream career is …      	
This career is important to me because …
For this career, I need/must …  	
I am suited to this career because …
Right now, I do not have …, but I plan to …  	 My short-term/long-term goal is … 
I may face some challenges, like …                             
If I …, then I will …
The Career l’d like to have is
Hobbies
Challenges
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER
59

===== PAGE 67 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Look at the pictures from the video below. In groups, use the following words and 
any other words you can think of to describe what is happening in the photos.
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Check your responses to BEFORE YOU WATCH.
2	 Decide if the following statements are true (T) or false (F).
	
	
1	 The tent and long grass stop the birds from seeing Mateusz.	
	
	
T
	
F
 	
	
2	 The Natural History Museum in New York recognised his talent with the 
	
	
	 award Best Young Wildlife Photographer.	
	
	
	
T
	
F
	
	
3	 He took his award-winning photograph of oyster catchers on a beach 
	
	
	 in London.	
	
	
	
T
	
F
	
	
4	 Mateusz takes up to 1,000 photographs in each session.	
	
	
T
	
F
	
	
5	 His parents buy meat for him because he gets hungry while taking 
	
	
	 photographs.	
	
	
	
T
	
F
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1 	 Mateusz loves wildlife photography. Which is your favourite type of photography and why? 
2 	 Why do you think Mateusz has been so successful at such a young age? List three 
reasons. How could you apply these to yourself to achieve your own goals and dreams?
A Teen’s Passion for His Work
Photography is a popular hobby today, and has 
become easier as technology has improved. 
However, it takes a great deal of patience and hard 
work to become a successful photographer. This 
video shows how passion and enthusiasm helped 
a young man succeed in bringing his work to an 
international audience.
* Video Time
grass    camera    hide     wait    well-disguised    edit a photograph  
give a presentation    smart clothes    fame
60
UNIT 5  LAUNCHING YOUR CAREER

===== PAGE 68 =====
  UNIT 1  SCIENCE FICTION
3 三个班级被随机挑选出来参加了翻转课堂的实
验。(at random, flipped classroom)
4 这种7.9 英寸迷你版的平板电脑一上市就受到了年
轻人的喜爱。(inch, version)
4	 Complete the passage using the 
correct forms of the words in the 
box. Do you believe Hawking’s 
predictions?
pros and cons    take over
on a scientific basis
have an urge to    superior
conflict with    backwards
Time travel, alien invasions, and artificial 
intelligence have always been popular themes in 
science fiction. However, these were never the 
exclusive domains of sci-fi writers. Some 
scientists also 
 explore these 
themes 
. Take time travel as 
an example. Many fascinating stories based on 
time travel go either 
 or 
forwards in time. However, the former is not 
really an option. World-famous scientist Stephen 
Hawking once explained that travelling into the 
past would 
 the basic rule that 
cause comes before effect. But it would be 
possible to travel into the future in a vastly 
 spaceship approaching the 
speed of light. In addition to the question of time 
travel, Hawking also expressed his opinions on 
alien invasions and AI development. When 
many scientists and scholars were still arguing 
about the 
 of alien existence 
and AI development, Hawking said he believed 
aliens would invade Earth, and that humans 
would eventually 
 by AI and 
robots.
Using Words and Expressions 
 
UNIT 1