
===== PAGE 53 =====
UNIT 4
NATURAL DISASTERS
4 NATURAL
DISASTERS
UNIT
Live to Tell: Raising Awareness,
Reducing Mortality.
—United Nations International Strategy
for Disaster Reduction (2016)
In this unit, you will Look and discuss
1 read about natural disasters. 1 What’s going on in this photo?
2 listen to news reports about natural disasters 2 What kinds of natural disasters can you
and discuss disaster safety measures. think of?
3 write a summary.
4 learn about disaster relief work.
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 47

===== PAGE 54 =====
Listening and Speaking
Report natural disasters
1 Watch the video Natural Disasters and look at the photos. Do you know what
these disasters are? Write down their names.
1 2
3 4 5
2 Listen to the news reports and tick the disasters that you hear.
earthquake tornado wildfire drought
landslide tsunami flood volcanic eruption
3 Circle the key word(s) in the questions below and
Listen for details
write the kind of information they refer to. Then
Think about what you are
listen again and answer the questions.
listening for before you
listen: numbers, dates, times,
addresses, activities, people
or places, reasons, etc.
Question Type of information Answer
1 What was the magnitude of the earthquake in Ecuador?
number
2 How many people were killed or injured in Ecuador?
3 Where are the floods?
4 What are the rescue workers and soldiers doing in the flood-hit area?
5 When did people see the tornado in Memphis?
6 Which buildings were damaged in Seoul?
7 What caused the landslide in Seoul?
48 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS

===== PAGE 55 =====
4 Read about the disasters below and prepare a short news report on one of
them. Then present your news report to a partner.
Earthquake Wildfire Flood
Wenchuan, China Alberta, Canada Colombo, Sri Lanka
14:28 Monday, 12 May Began on 1 May Began in May
Magnitude 7.8 (8.0) 2,400 homes destroyed 82 killed, 500,000 affected
At least 8,500 killed (by 13 Almost 88,000 people rescue teams provided food
May) evacuated and water
rescue workers (medical Hundreds of firefighters arrived Shelters set up by the
teams, troops, volunteers, Planes, helicopters used to government
etc.) organised quickly fight the fire
No deaths, no injuries
EXAMPLE
Good morning. Today is 13 May. A huge earthquake hit Wenchuan, China yesterday afternoon ...
Pronunciation
1 Listen and repeat. Pay attention to the letters in bold.
pipe brick tend death keen glory fond view
think they campus amaze flash garage French bridge
truly draw events friends
2 Read the words aloud. Pay attention to the pronunciation of the -ed endings.
Then write the words in the boxes.
begged breathed described concentrated confused debated
exchanged helped laughed learned depended embarrassed
pretended reserved shocked viewed watched wished
/t/ /d/ /Id/
3 Listen to the words in each box and repeat.
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 49

===== PAGE 56 =====
Reading and Thinking
Describe a natural disaster
1 Work in pairs. Discuss what can happen to a city during a big earthquake.
2 Look at the title and photo below and guess what the text is about. Then read
and check if you are right.
THE NIGHT THE EARTH DIDN’T SLEEP
Strange things were happening in the countryside of northeastern Hebei. For several days,
the water in the village wells rose and fell, rose and fell. There were deep cracks that
appeared in the well walls. At least one well had some smelly gas coming out of it. Chickens
and even pigs were too nervous to eat, and dogs refused to go inside buildings. Mice ran out
of the fields looking for places to hide, and fish jumped out of the water. At about 3:00 a.m.,
on 28 July 1976, bright lights were seen in the sky outside the city of Tangshan and loud
noises were heard. But the city’s one million people were asleep as usual that night.
At 3:42 a.m., everything began to shake. It seemed as if the world were coming to an end!
Eleven kilometres directly below the city, one of the most deadly earthquakes of the 20th
century had begun, a quake that even caused damage more than 150 kilometres away in
Beijing. Nearly one third of the whole nation felt it! A huge crack, eight kilometres long
and 30 metres wide, cut across houses, roads, and waterways. Hard hills of rock became
rivers of dirt. In less than one minute, a large city lay in ruins. Two thirds of the people
who lived there were dead or injured. Thousands of children were left without parents. The
number of people who were killed or badly injured in the quake was more than 400,000.
Everywhere survivors looked, there was nothing but ruins. Nearly everything in the city
was destroyed. About 75 percent of the city’s factories and buildings, 90 percent of its
homes, and all of its hospitals were gone. Bricks covered the ground like red autumn
leaves, but no wind could blow them away. Most bridges had fallen or were not safe to
cross. The railway tracks were now useless pieces of metal. Tens of thousands of cows,
hundreds of thousands of pigs, and millions of chickens were dead. Sand now filled the
wells instead of water. People were in shock— and then, later that afternoon, another big
quake shook Tangshan again. Even more buildings fell down. Water, food, and electricity
were hard to get. People began to wonder how long the disaster would last.
But hope was not lost. Soon after the quakes, the army sent 150,000 soldiers to Tangshan
to dig out those who were trapped and to bury the dead. More than 10,000 doctors and
nurses came to provide medical care. Workers built shelters for survivors whose homes
had been destroyed. Hundreds of thousands of people were helped. Water and food were
brought into the city by train, truck, and plane. Slowly, the city began to breathe again.
Tangshan started to revive itself and get back up on its feet. With strong support from the
government and the tireless efforts of the city’s people, a new Tangshan was built upon the
earthquake ruins. The new city has become a home to more than seven million people, with
great improvements in transportation, industry, and environment. Tangshan city has proved
to China and the rest of the world that in times of disaster, people must unify and show the
wisdom to stay positive and rebuild for a brighter future.
50 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS

===== PAGE 57 =====
3 Read the text carefully and then write down the main idea of each paragraph.
Paragraph 1: Warning signs before the earthquake.
Paragraph 2:
Paragraph 3: Use context to
understand new words
Paragraph 4:
When you see a word you do
Paragraph 5: not know, do not stop and
look it up in a dictionary. If
you continue reading, the
4 Scan the text and find the words below. Guess what
context will probably help you
they mean from the context.
understand what it means.
ruin brick trap bury
5 Read the sentences describing what happened after a huge earthquake.
Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the new words and phrases
from the text.
1 The huge earthquake left nearly the whole city .
2 Everyone was , thinking the world must be coming to an end.
3 Millions of people were left without water, food, or .
4 Soldiers and volunteers worked as hard as they could to pull away and
rocks, and rescue those who were under the ruins.
5 Some were found alive, though they were suffering from terrible injuries, but others had
already stopped when they were discovered.
6 A few buildings were still standing, but people were afraid to use them as shelters,
worrying they would be if the buildings fell.
6 Read the text again and answer the questions.
1 What were some of the strange things happening before the earthquake? Do you think they
were warning signs? Why or why not?
2 What does the writer mean by “Slowly, the city began to breathe again”?
3 What kind of help do you think people who have suffered an earthquake need?
7 Work in groups. Discuss the questions.
1 What do you think helped in the revival of Tangshan city?
2 What other cities or towns have gone through similar changes? What lessons can we learn
from these events?
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 51

===== PAGE 58 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
Describe pictures of disasters
1 Find and underline the restrictive relative clauses in the sentences below.
What function do the restrictive relative clauses have?
The Tangshan earthquake was a terrible experience that my great-grandma cannot forget.
The couple who live next to us volunteered to help after the volcano erupted.
The supplies which were provided to the disaster area were collected from around the country.
Mr Li is an architect whose designs for the new town have won praise.
A doctor with whom James used to work died in the 2016 earthquake in Ecuador.
Find more sentences with restrictive relative clauses from the text on page 50.
2 Complete each sentence with that, which, who, whose, whom, or “/”. Then
translate the sentences into Chinese.
1 Here are some of the people homes were destroyed by the typhoon.
2 The terrible shaking of the building woke up all the people were asleep.
3 The next day, people put up shelters in the open air using anything they
could find.
4 Several days later, most of the buildings had been damaged by the hurricane
were repaired.
5 The injured boy mother was lost in the disaster was taken to the hospital.
6 The woman wrote a thank-you letter to the soldier by she was rescued.
7 Is this the young boy saved several other students trapped under buildings?
3 Work with a partner. Take turns to ask each other about the pictures. Make
sentences with restrictive relative clauses using that, which, who, whose, or
whom.
EXAMPLE
A: What’s the rescue worker doing?
B: She’s feeding the baby who survived the earthquake.
1 2 3
52 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS

===== PAGE 59 =====
Listening and Talking
Prepare for a disaster
1 Mrs Fors is a rescue worker. She and her dog, Lucky, are visiting a senior high
school. Listen to the conversation and complete the table below.
Before an earthquake Make a safety list of , , and .
During an earthquake
Remember to “ , , and ”.
(in a building)
During an earthquake Go to a(n) space away from ,
, or power lines.
(outdoors)
After an earthquake Use a(n) to get help.
(if you’re trapped) Tap on a pipe or or whistle for help.
2 Work in pairs. Choose a disaster and prepare a list of safety instructions. The
expressions below may help you.
Giving instructions
First/First of all, you should ... Cover your ... Call an emergency number.
Stay calm. Listen to the news. Stay away from ...
Don’t drive or walk outside. Move to a safe place. Make sure ...
Collect water and food if you can. Finally, ... Stay indoors.
3 Having an emergency kit prepared is also very important. Look at the
emergency supplies below. Discuss with a partner what else you would add.
EMERGENCY
whistle
radio
SUPPLIES
water and food flashlight first aid kit
for three days
4 Report to the class the safety instructions you listed and then explain what
emergency supplies people should keep on hand.
EXAMPLE
If you find yourself in danger from a forest fire, first of all, stay calm. Cover your face with ...
Then go to a safer place if you can. …
Now for our emergency supplies, we would suggest always having on hand enough water
and food for three days, a radio, …
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 53

===== PAGE 60 =====
Reading for Writing
Write a summary
1 Read the news report released the day after a tsunami and answer the
questions.
The Daily News
Tsunami HiTs asia:
Over 6,500 DeaD
By Robert Woodhouse Monday, 27 December 2004
The most powerful earth- alone, at least 1,870 people “I was having breakfast with
quake in the past 40 years were killed. my three children when water
caused a tsunami that crashed In Sri Lanka, some 1,600 started filling my home. We
into coastlines across Asia kilometres west of the quake had to leave everything and
yesterday, killing more than centre, the number of deaths run to safety,” said Chandra
6,500 people in Indonesia, stood at 2,498, and one million Theeravit, a local Thai woman.
India, Thailand, Malaysia, and more were affected by the Thousands of people are
at least four other countries. tsunami, government officials still missing, and the number
Fishermen, tourists, hotels, said. Indian officials said as of deaths is expected to grow
homes, and cars were swept many as 1,900 had been killed even higher over the next few
away by huge waves caused along the southern coast. days. Foreign aid is being
by the strong earthquake that Another 254 were found dead organised for the tsunami-hit
reached a magnitude of 9.0. in Thailand and 54 in three countries. However, dangerous
The undersea quake struck other countries. In southern conditions and damaged
around 7:00 a.m., Sunday off Thailand, 1,900 people were roads will make it difficult to
the west coast of Indonesia’s hurt and many more were deliver food and supplies.
Sumatra Island. In that area missing, local officials said.
1 When did the tsunami happen?
2 What caused the tsunami?
3 Why would it be difficult to deliver food and supplies?
54 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS

===== PAGE 61 =====
2 Read the summary of the news report. Check the main points it includes.
Summary: On 26 December 2004, a tsunami killed more than 6,500 tourists, fishermen, and other
locals in Asia. Thousands of people are missing and the number of deaths is expected to grow. The
damage caused by the tsunami is making it difficult for rescue workers to help the survivors.
A summary is a short
date time place event
statement of main points.
A summary paragraph tells
cause effect following events
the main ideas and the most
important information of a
longer passage.
3 Follow the steps below to write a summary for the text on page 50.
1 Read the text and write a list of the main details.
• Strange things happened in the countryside before the earthquake.
• An earthquake hit China on 28 July 1976.
•
•
•
•
2 Write down the main idea of each paragraph based on the details above.
3 Organise the ideas and draft your summary. Pay attention to the following:
• A summary should be around one third the length of the original text.
• Write down the key supporting points for the topic.
• Do not include unimportant details or examples.
4 Exchange drafts. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner̓s draft.
Does the summary give you a clear idea of what the text is about?
Does the summary include only the most important information of the text?
Is the summary the proper length?
Are there any spelling or punctuation errors?
Does the writer use correct tenses?
5 Get your draft back and revise it.
4 Put up your summary in the classroom or read it to the class.
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 55

===== PAGE 62 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1 Circle the correct word in each sentence.
1 The tornado that hit Mississippi last week caused a lot of damage/destroy.
2 The mother thanked the rescue/save worker who found her baby.
3 According to experts, the volcano could crash/erupt this week.
4 Thousands of people are suffering/trapping from illnesses after the disaster.
5 An emergency delivery/supply of food was transported to the area by the army.
6 The earthquake affected/effected an area of several hundred square kilometres.
7 During a natural disaster, the most important thing is to keep calm/quiet.
8 “She’s still breathing/surviving! Come and help me dig her out!” shouted the soldier.
2 Read the passage and fill in the blanks with relative pronouns.
The people live in Wenchuan
county will never forget the day 12 May, 2008. The
8.0-magnitude earthquake
killed over 80,000 people and left many more
injured turned many towns and counties into
ruins. The rescue work
followed was carried out by people from all
over the country, and even abroad.
Now, more than 10 years on, the people suffered the earthquake are living a
new life. Many live in new towns are earthquake-safe, in local communities
have been beautifully rebuilt by the government. The people will never forget
those rescued them and helped them rebuild their home. Out of gratitude,
many young adults were students during the earthquake have chosen
to study medicine or join the army in a wish to help more people. Wenchuan, the county
was completely destroyed and then completely rebuilt, has become a
symbol of the Chinese spirit of never giving up.
REFLECTING
What did you learn about natural disasters in this unit that you did not know before?
What else do you want to know about natural disasters?
What did you find the most difficult in this unit?
What in this unit motivated you most?
Overall, I thought this unit was interesting useful so-so difficult.
56 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS

===== PAGE 63 =====
* Project: Give a presentation on natural disasters
1 BRAINSTORM: Work in groups of three or four. Choose one of the natural
disasters below and brainstorm answers to the questions.
earthquake
typhoon/hurricane
tornado
landslide/snowslide
wildfire
tsunami
volcanic eruption
drought
flood
Understanding the disaster
Are there any known causes of the disaster? What can be done to prevent it?
Preparing for the disaster
What are the possible effects of the disaster? What can be done to prepare for it?
In the event of a disaster
What can you do to stay safe during the disaster? What kind of help do survivors need?
2 RESEARCH: Which questions do you not know the answers to? Which ones do you
need more information on? Use the Internet or your school library to find out more.
3 ORGANISE: Put together a presentation using the information you have
gathered. Use the tips below to help you.
• Start your presentation with a “hook” (a story or fact to catch the attention of your
listeners).
On Monday, 5 September 20XX, 600 people disappeared when …
• Reduce your ideas to three main points to help listeners remember what you say.
So always remember to drop, cover, and hold on. …
• Prepare visual aids for your presentation (photos, charts, tables, etc.).
4 PRESENT: Give a group presentation to your class.
UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS 57

===== PAGE 64 =====
* Video Time
Tsunami: Killer Wave
Tsunami waves can strike out of nowhere
and cause a lot of destruction. Scientists
study and track tsunamis in order to warn
people and minimise deaths.
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Read the sentences about the formation and effects of tsunamis. Then match
each sentence with the correct picture.
A Tectonic plates push together.
B A series of waves expands in all directions.
C Whole sections of cities are destroyed.
WHILE YOU WATCH
1 Decide whether the statements are true (T) or false (F).
1 There are few warning signs just before a tsunami hits. T F
2 A tsunami breaks just like an ordinary wave but is bigger. T F
3 Scientists at the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center monitor the earth’s
movements 24 hours a day in order to track tsunamis. T F
2 Circle the correct word(s) in each sentence.
1 An earthquake occurs when plates below the earth’s surface push together/pull apart.
2 Tsunami waves deep at sea move fast and rise only a few/hundreds of feet.
3 As these killer waves enter shallow waters, their speed is reduced/raised.
4 Most tsunami damage is caused when the waves come in from/move back out to the sea.
AFTER YOU WATCH
Work in pairs. Discuss the questions.
1 What have you learnt about tsunamis?
2 What kind of help do you think people who have suffered from a tsunami need?
58 UNIT 4 NATURAL DISASTERS