
===== PAGE 65 =====
UNIT 5
LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD
LANGUAGES
5
AROUND
UUNNIITT
THE WORLD
One language sets you in a
corridor for life. Two languages
open every door along the way.
—Frank Smith
In this unit, you will Look and discuss
1 read about the development of Chinese characters 1 Do you know where the photo was taken?
and students’ difficulties in learning English. 2 Which languages do you think are officially
2 listen to a speech about learning foreign languages used here?
and talk about reasons why people study a foreign
language.
3 write a blog about language study.
4 learn about the history of the Oxford English Dictionary.
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 59

===== PAGE 66 =====
LLiisstteenniinngg aanndd SSppeeaakkiinngg
Explore languages around the world
1 Before you listen, match each photo with the correct country name. Then
discuss which languages are spoken in these countries.
Hallo!
Bonjour!
1 2 3
Здравствуйте! !
4 5 6
France Russia Germany Spain Canada India
2 Listen to a speech and tick the two languages with the most native speakers.
Circle the official languages of the United Nations (UN).
Russian Chinese Korean Japanese
Spanish Arabic English French
3 Listen to the speech again and answer the questions.
1 What is the main topic of this speech?
2 How many languages are there in the world?
3 How many billion people speak the UN’s official languages as their native or second
language?
4 What is the attitude of the speaker towards foreign language learning?
4 Listen to the speech again. What do the italicised
Reference
words refer to in the sentences?
Pronouns (it, they, she, etc.)
refer to something or somebody
1 They think it means better job chances in the future. mentioned earlier. Pay attention to
2 They are spoken by around 2.8 billion people ... the context of words to help you
understand what the pronouns
refer to.
60 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD

===== PAGE 67 =====
5 Work in pairs or groups. Discuss which other language(s) you want to learn and why.
My father is doing business with Perhaps I should study French. I
I like watching Japanese cartoons,
Russians. I’d like to learn Russian think it sounds beautiful, and I
so I’d like to learn Japanese.
so I can help him in the future. know it’s used in many countries.
EXAMPLE
A: What language do you want to study?
B: I really want to study French. I think that the French language sounds beautiful.
A: Why? Do you want to go to France some day?
B: Yes, I’d love to. Also, French is used by many international organisations around the
world. Do you know that FIFA’s full name is in French?
A: Oh, I remember that. But I don’t know how to pronounce it.
Pronunciation
1 Work in pairs. Read the words to each other and see if you pronounce
them differently.
schedule hostile either address
direct laboratory advertisement shone
Listen and pay attention to how the speakers pronounce them.
*
2 Listen to the paragraph read by two different speakers. Which speaker
has a British accent and which has an American accent?
English is a crazy language. There is no egg in eggplant nor ham in hamburger; neither
apple nor pine in pineapple. English muffins weren’t invented in England or French fries
in France. Sweetmeats are candies while sweetbreads, which aren’t sweet, are meat.
... We find that quicksand can work slowly, boxing rings are square, and a guinea pig
is neither from Guinea nor is it a pig. And why is it that writers write but … hammers
don’t ham?（Richard Lederer）
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 61

===== PAGE 68 =====
Reading and Thinking
Explore the Chinese writing system
1 Look at the title and picture below. Predict what the text will be about.
2 Read the text quickly to find the main idea of each paragraph.
THE CHINESE WRITING SYSTEM:
CONNECTING THE PAST A ND THE PRESENT
China is widely known for its ancient civilisation which has continued all the way through into
modern times, despite the many ups and downs in its history. There are many reasons why this
has been possible, but one of the main factors has been the Chinese writing system.
At the beginning, written Chinese was a picture-based language. It dates back several thousand
years to the use of longgu—animal bones
and shells on which symbols were carved
by ancient Chinese people. Some of the
ancient symbols can still be seen in today’s
hanzi.
马 鱼 鹿 牛
By the Shang Dynasty (around 1600–
1046 BCE), these symbols had become a
well-developed writing system. Over the
人 大 子 止
years, the system developed into different
forms, as it was a time when people
马
were divided geographically, leading to
many varieties of dialects and characters.
This, however, changed under Emperor
燕 齐 赵 魏 韩 楚 秦 秦统一后
Qinshihuang of the Qin Dynasty (221–207 的文字
BCE).
Emperor Qinshihuang united the seven major states into one unified country where the Chinese
writing system began to develop in one direction. That writing system was of great importance in
uniting the Chinese people and culture. Even today, no matter where Chinese people live or what
dialect they speak, they can all still communicate in writing.
Written Chinese has also become an important means by which China’s present is connected
with its past. People in modern times can read the classic works which were written by Chinese
in ancient times. The high regard for the Chinese writing system can be seen in the development
of Chinese characters as an art form, known as Chinese calligraphy, which has become an
important part of Chinese culture.
Today, the Chinese writing system is still an important part of Chinese culture. As China plays
a greater role in global affairs, an increasing number of international students are beginning to
appreciate China’s culture and history through this amazing language.
62 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD

===== PAGE 69 =====
3 Scan the text to find the words and phrases Scan
that describe a time. Then write down what
Scanning is looking at the
happened at each of those important times. text quickly to find specific
information, such as dates
or numbers.
4 Read the text again and discuss the questions.
1 How did written Chinese unify Chinese people divided by geography and dialects?
2 How does written Chinese connect Chinese people today with those of the past?
3 According to the writer, the Chinese writing system is one factor that has helped the
Chinese language and culture survive. What do you think are some of the other factors?
5 Complete the passage with the correct
words and phrase below.
system carving means
dates back classic civilisation
Chinese calligraphy has developed along with
China’s . It is difficult to say when
exactly calligraphy started. Chinese writing was
first done by symbols onto bones
and shells, but as it developed into a writing
, it also developed as a form of art
done with a brush. It is believed that Chinese
calligraphy to at least the Han
Dynasty (202 BCE–220 CE). Soon after that,
the idea developed that calligraphy was not only
a beautiful art form but also a of
showing the character of the “man behind the
brush”. Today, anyone from small children to old
people can enjoy practising the art of
Chinese calligraphy.
6 Guess the meaning of the underlined words in the sentences. Then look in
the text for the words they are related to.
1 Many Chinese characters symbolise their meanings, unlike English words which are spelt
out according to how they sound.
2 The basic forms of the English writing system are known as letters.
3 A unified writing system is considered to be an important part of civilised society.
4 Learning Chinese calligraphy will increase your appreciation of Chinese culture.
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 63

===== PAGE 70 =====
Discovering Useful Structures
Describe your favourite things
1 Look at these sentences and underline the restrictive relative clauses. What
kind of information does each clause communicate?
It was a time when people were divided geographically.
Emperor Qinshihuang united the seven major states into one unified country where the
Chinese writing system began to develop in one direction.
There are many reasons why people learn a foreign language.
These were animal bones and shells on which symbols were carved by ancient Chinese
people.
2 Fill in the table to complete each phrase with a restrictive relative clause.
Then use the phrases to make complete sentences.
the day when the reason why
the place where the place/time in/at which
3 Complete the passage with the correct relative adverbs or pronouns. Add a
preposition where necessary.
When I started studying German, it was a struggle. The words felt strange on my tongue,
and the grammar would not stay in my head. I told my mum that I wanted to give up, and
that I would never live in a country German was spoken. My mum told me that
studying a language was not just for my future. It was exercise for the brain; the more I learnt of
a language, the more my brain would grow. And I remember that day I suddenly
felt like German was no longer a foreign language. It felt like my brain had doubled in size. I had
finally come to a place I could think in this foreign language, and I could see the
world from a different point of view. I felt as if I had reached the goal I had been
fighting for. I could open a book and see meanings, not just a sea of words. I finally understood
the reason my mum had encouraged me not to give up. Thanks, Mum!
4 Work in pairs. Ask and answer the questions.
A: What kind of day makes you happy? B: It’s a day when …
A: What’s your favourite place at school? B: It’s …, because it is a place where …
A: What kind of teachers do you like best? B: I like teachers who …
A: Who do you admire most? Why? B: I admire … That’s the reason
why …
64 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD

===== PAGE 71 =====
Listening and Talking
Explore different kinds of English
1 Listen to the first part of the talk. What are the different kinds of English
mentioned?
2 Listen to the second part of the talk. What are the two pairs of words that the
student is confused by? Tick them in the boxes.
semester/term  restroom/toilet   gas/petrol  subway/underground
3 Look at the pairs of words below. Which words are British English and which are
American English? Try to think of more pairs of words like these.
petrol sweet toilet honour mum flat
gas candy restroom honor mom apartment
4 Read and role-play the conversation. What misunderstanding has happened?
Martin: Hey, Zhou Wei, do you want to go shopping? There’s a sale at my favourite store.
Zhou Wei: Oh, yes! I really need to buy some pants.
Martin: Pants? That’s funny. I don’t usually go shopping with my friends for pants.
Zhou Wei: You don’t? Don’t you like to have somebody tell you if the pants look good or not?
Martin: Er… Not really … Hey, wait, do you mean trousers—what you and I are
wearing on our legs right now?
Zhou Wei: Oh, yes. That’s what I mean by pants! That’s American English, isn’t it?
Martin: Yes, it is! I knew what you meant, by the way. I was just joking with you. Did you
know that in British English, “pants” means something very different?
Zhou Wei: Really? So what does it mean?
Martin: In British English, the word “pants” means underwear. ...
5 Choose one or two pairs of words in Activity 3 and make a conversation. The
expressions below may help you.
Asking for clarification
Do you mean …? Does that mean …? I’m sorry. What does … mean?
I’m sorry. Would you mind repeating …? I beg your pardon.
So am I right in saying …? So what you’re really saying is …
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 65

===== PAGE 72 =====
Reading for Writing
Write a blog about English study
1 Read these posts from an online forum for Chinese students who are learning
English and fill in the table on page 67.
Learning English
login sign up
Hey, everybody, what are your biggest problems with learning English?
Wang Le
Hi! I’ve been studying English since primary school. I used to get high marks
in English, but now I’m having a lot of trouble with my listening. When I listen
to native English speakers talking in a video, I can catch only a few words. I
Liu Wen can never quite get the main idea. Any advice?
2 2 1
Listening to English radio programmes helps me get used to how fast native
speakers talk. I also repeat what I hear to help myself to experience the
feeling of the language. Sometimes I even record my voice so I can listen
Jia Xin to myself and compare my pronunciation with the radio host’s! My biggest
headache is how to be polite in English. It’s so much easier to just say “Open
the window!”, but in English that can sound really terrible. I have to think
about who I’m talking to and then decide whether to say, “Open the window,
please!” or “Could you open the window, please?” or even longer “Would you
mind opening the window, please?”
0 0 2
Yeah, that’s really hard! I think it all depends on who you’re talking to. If I’m
talking to a close friend, I can use short requests, like “Open the window”—our
Li Rui relationship is close and we’re equals, so I only need a few words to bridge
the gap between us. But if I’m talking to someone who isn’t very close to me, I
must make my request longer—and I must make it a question, not a demand,
e.g., “Could you open the window, please?” If I’m talking to someone senior
to me, then I should say, “Would you mind opening the window, please?” For
me, vocabulary is my biggest problem—there are just SO MANY new words!
I can’t keep all the new vocabulary straight in my head, and I certainly can’t
remember how to use them all properly. HELP!
4 0 0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7...12
66 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD

===== PAGE 73 =====
Name Problem Advice
Jia Xin’s advice
Liu Wen Listen to English radio programmes
Li Rui’s advice
Jia Xin
Your advice
Li Rui
2 Work in groups. List your problems in learning English and brainstorm some
useful advice.
I don t̓ know how to … I have no idea how/what …
… is a big difficulty for me. My biggest problem is …
I cannot … I (also) have trouble with …
You might try … My advice is …
It’s very important to … This worked for me.
Problem Advice
I cannot understand the teacher’s English
in class.
3 Choose one of the problems from your group discussion and write a blog about it.
1 Describe the problem clearly.
2 Write one or two ideas on how to solve the problem.
3 Exchange drafts. Assess each other’s work according to the checklist.
Does the writer give a clear description of the problem?
General content Is the advice clearly explained?
Does each sentence relate to the main idea?
Does the writer use pronouns to refer to things or people correctly?
Basic writing skills Does the writer use correct spelling, punctuation, and capitalisation?
Are there any grammar mistakes?
4 Get your draft back and revise it.
4 Put up your writing in the classroom or read it to the class.
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 67

===== PAGE 74 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1 Read the first part of a passage and find suitable words for the blanks.
attitude classic point of view civilisation
despite native related to struggle
Part I The first foreign language I ever learnt was French, but it didn’t go very well. My mother
asked our neighbour to teach me when I was seven. French wasn’t his language,
but he used to live in France, so he could speak a little. However, his help, I learnt
very little French. I just didn’t feel that it my daily life in any way, so I didn’t try.
When I entered senior high school, my towards language learning changed. I
had to learn Latin, which I’ve always been interested in because I want to study law. For this
reason, learning Latin wasn’t a for me like learning French. Soon I began to read
books in Latin. It certainly wasn’t easy, but I got to read lots of interesting stories
about ancient . Reading those books opened a window for me to another world
and gave me a new on my own world.
2 Read the second part of the passage and combine the words in the two boxes
to complete the restrictive relative clauses.
building class day way someone when in which where who that
Part II I became interested in learning more languages aside from English. Then I saw
an advertisement that offered a wonderful summer course in German, and that was the
I decided to take on a new language. The we met for classes was
quite small, but there was a whole world of language to explore. Our teacher was Mrs Haus:
a tall, thin, quiet, grey-haired lady. I’ll never forget the first she introduced herself
to us. She never once raised her voice, but as soon as she began to speak, the room fell
silent. What was the reason? Because Mrs Haus LOVED German language and culture—and
everybody who was in her classes couldn’t help but love the language, too. We all loved the
she talked about German food and traditions. And I realised what makes a good
teacher. A good teacher is is in love with what she or he is teaching.
What ways did the writer use to learn foreign languages?
REFLECTING
What did you think of the quote at the beginning of the unit?
Did you find it easy or difficult to talk about your reasons for learning a foreign language?
Why?
Did you learn anything new from the text about Chinese characters? If so, what did you
learn?
How does learning about different kinds of English affect your English study?
Overall, I thought this unit was good useful just OK difficult.
68 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD

===== PAGE 75 =====
* Project: Create your own word bank
1 Study an English-English dictionary to help you create a word bank.
There are many different English-English dictionaries. Here is an entry from a commonly used
dictionary.
word demand /dImnd; dIm:nd/ pronunciation
n.1 [C] a firm request for something • a demand for equal pay
2 [pl.] ( of sth) things required that are usually difficult
˜
and/or tiring • the demands of the new job 3 [C, U] the request of
grammar
meaning customers for goods or services • There is an increasing demand
information
on English translators these days. IDM by popular demand; in
demand; on demand
v. 1 to ask for something strongly • I demand to know what’s going on.
• The boss demanded that all workers arrive in time. 2 to need
example
one’s effort, time, skill, etc. • Many sports demand speed and
strength.
2 Choose the words that are most difficult/useful to you and put them into your
word bank.
1 Decide how to organise the words. For example:
• in alphabetical order: A, B, C, etc.
• by group: all the words related to a certain topic, pronunciation, part of speech, etc.
• by commonly confused words, such as “chicken/kitchen”, “diary/dairy”, etc.
• by memory devices: words that you have memorised together, such as words with the
same roots, etc.
2 Complete the entries.
tongue
• English definitions
n. the soft part inside one’s mouth that
• grammar information
we use for speaking and eating
• one or two example sentences cab
n. a taxi
3 Illustrate them. calligraphy
n. the art of producing beautiful writing
• drawings • diagrams using special pens or brushes
• tables • cartoons
3 Work in pairs. Exchange ideas with each other about how you made your word
bank. Then discuss how you are going to use it to help your English study.
UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD 69

===== PAGE 76 =====
* Video Time
Chinese Characters
The Chinese writing system has evolved from
ancient times. Learning Chinese characters
can connect us with people from long ago.
Written Chinese has also been adapted so it
can be used by future generations.
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Complete the sentences with the words below.
carved classics era origins radicals
1 Ancient Chinese people symbols onto turtle shells or bones of animals.
2 Many of today’s characters have their in the observations of ancient Chinese
people.
3 About 80 percent of Chinese characters are made up of smaller parts, called .
4 If you can read Chinese characters, you can read Chinese from thousands of
years ago.
5 Chinese characters have been adapted into digital form in the modern .
WHILE YOU WATCH
Choose the correct answers.
1 How many tales or legends about the origin of Chinese characters are mentioned in the video?
A Three. B Four. C Five.
2 Today, written Chinese is the system of writing in the world.
A most complicated B oldest continuously used C hardest
3 The character jia probably originated from the idea that .
A animals should live in family homes B a good family home has plenty of food
C ancient homes always kept pigs
4 China’s unified writing system forms a strong bridge linking .
A China with the rest of the world B Asia, Africa, and Europe
C the present and the past
5 Written Chinese spreads wherever it goes.
A Chinese culture B Chinese classics C tales and legends
AFTER YOU WATCH
Work in groups. Discuss the questions.
1 Why do you think written Chinese has survived for so long?
2 Why do you think an increasing number of international students become interested in
learning the Chinese language?
70 UNIT 5 LANGUAGES AROUND THE WORLD