UNIT 1  ART

===== PAGE 10 =====
4	 Discuss the following questions in groups.
Impressionism (late 19th to early 20th century)
The development of Western art slowed until the invention 
of photography in the mid-19th century. After that, 
paintings were no longer needed to preserve what people 
and the world looked like. Hence, painters had to find a 
new way of looking at their art. From this, Impressionism 
emerged in France. The name of this new movement 
came from the painting by Claude Monet (1840–1926) 
called Impression, Sunrise. In this work, Monet’s aim was 
to convey the light and movement in the scene—the 
subjective impression the scene gave him—but not a 
detailed record of the scene itself.
While many Impressionists painted scenes of nature or daily life, others, such as Renoir (1841–
1919), focused on people. Unlike the cold, black-and-white photographs of that time period, 
Renoir’s paintings are full of light, shadow, colour, and life. He sought to show not just the outer 
image of his subjects, but their inner warmth and humanity as well.
Modern Art (from the 20th century to today)
After Impressionism, subsequent artists began to ask, “What do we do next?” Painters such 
as Picasso (1881–1973) tried to analyse the shapes which existed in the natural world but in a 
new way, with Cubism. Others gave their paintings a realistic but dream-like quality. Still others 
turned to abstract art. What they attempted to do was no longer show reality, but instead to 
ask the question, “What is art?”
Impression, Sunrise
3	 Match the paintings below with the correct period of art. Use the information 
in the reading passage to help you.
1	 Which period of Western art do you like most? Why are you fond of it?
2	 How would you answer the question, “What is art?”
The Middle Ages
 religious themes
The Renaissance
Impressionism
Modern Art
UNIT 1  ART
3

===== PAGE 11 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 In groups, brainstorm 
words and phrases 
concerning art and 
then make a mind 
map to connect them.
2	 Read the passage about Monet and Impressionism. Fill in the blanks with the 
correct forms of the words or phrases in the box.
3	 Work in groups. Look up each group of words in the dictionary and discuss their 
differences. Then create a blank-filling activity based on your understanding of 
these words. Exchange your activity with another group and see how well you 
can do.
be fond of      emerge      influential      in particular 
purchase      realistic      subjective      theme
accurately/precisely/exactly      rank/grade/degree      realistic/practical/actual
reputation/fame/popularity      subsequent/later/latter
EXAMPLE
EXAMPLE
sculptor
tools
Unlike the earlier Realists who painted in a 
 style, 
Impressionist painters focused more on their 
 
feelings of things and instant impressions. When Impressionism 
 in France in the late 19th century, artists became 
more interested in everyday subject matter. They were also 
fascinated by modern objects. As one of the most 
 
Impressionist painters, Claude Monet was impressed by the visual 
effects of the steam engine 
, and he later produced 
twelve paintings of a train station in Paris. In 1883, Monet and his 
large family moved to Giverny, where he 
 a house 
and some land for his gardens. During his days at Giverny, Monet 
 painting his own gardens, with the water lilies, the 
pond, and the arched bridge. From this we can see that there were two clear 
 
apparent in his work throughout his career: colours and reflections in water.
realistic / practical / actual
• You need to have realistic expectations of the returns from investments. 
• The bride appeared five years younger than her actual age. 
• Mr Liu has a lot of practical experience in restoring historic buildings.
fine art
sculpture
painting
painter
4
UNIT 1  ART

===== PAGE 12 =====
Discover useful structures 
1	 Read these sentences and fill in the blanks using the correct words from the 
text on pages 2 and 3. Discuss with your partner the function of the italicised 
infinitives.
2	 Match the sentence halves and underline the nouns or clauses used as the 
subject in each sentence. Explain the meanings of the complete sentences.
3	 Work in pairs. Make conversations using the following questions and sentence 
patterns.
1	 Perhaps the best 
 to understand Western art is to look at the development of 
Western painting over the centuries.
2	 During the Middle Ages, the 
 of Western art was to teach people about 
Christianity. 
3	 In this work, Monet’s 
 was to convey the light and movement in the scene … 
4	
 was no longer show reality, but instead to ask the question, “What is art?”
1	 What’s your biggest dream/ambition in life?
2	 How are you going to make your dream 
come true?
3	 How are you going to achieve your goal?
4	 Do you have any plans?
5	 What might be difficult for you?
6	 How are you going to deal with ...?
1	 The young singer’s intention of 
performing the song was 
2	 The best way to do business is 
3	 What the survivors attempted to do was 
4	 The main purpose of art education in 
schools is
5	 The aim of the two leaders at the 
conference was 
6	 For a humble person, one of the hardest 
things might be
7	 When you are faced with a serious 
decision, my suggestion is
8	 The mother’s wish is
9	 All he wanted after a tiring day was
A	 to build trust between you and your 
client.
B	 to achieve permanent peace between 
their two countries. 
C	 to build a memorial to the heroes who 
saved their lives. 
D	 to share his love for rock music with 
his fans. 
E	 to be left alone. 
F	 to criticise other people. 
G	 to inspire students to be creative.
H	 to listen to your own inner voice.
I	
to raise her son to become a man with 
a noble mind and a generous heart.
UNIT 1  ART
5
 My biggest dream/ambition in life is to …
 I think all I have to do is …
 My plan is to … 
 I think one of the hardest things might be …
 I guess the best way to … is … 

===== PAGE 13 =====
Using Language
1    Before you listen, look at the following pictures and discuss the questions in 
groups. Use the words and phrases in the box to help you. 
2    Listen to the presentation and put the following items in the order that you hear 
them. 
3    Listen again and answer the questions.  
Talk about works of art
a
b
c
These pictures are representative of ink wash animation films. Have you seen any of them 
before? What do you know about them?
ink wash animation film    ink wash painting    Qi Baishi    frame     
 Tadpoles Searching for Mother    The Cowboy’s Flute        
Feeling from Mountain and Water    guqin    symphony    hand-painted
 the background of ink wash animation films
 a short review of the film
 introduction to the topic of the presentation
 a description of the story in the film
 an explanation of the decline in ink wash animation
1	 Which film does the speaker mainly talk about?
2	 When were the three ink wash animation films produced?
3	 Why is the film regarded as a masterpiece of Chinese ink wash animation?
4	 What is the speaker’s attitude towards the ink wash animation style?
5	 How do you feel about this kind of film?
6
UNIT 1  ART

===== PAGE 14 =====
Listening and Speaking
4    Listen again and tick the signpost words that you hear. 
5    Work in groups. Choose a work of art you like and prepare information about it. Use 
the table below to help you. Then give a presentation about the work of art to the 
class. 
Listen for signpost markers
Signpost markers are phrases and expressions that are used to tell a listener what is going 
to be talked about next. Speakers use signpost markers when they want to introduce a 
new topic, to start a new point, to give an example, to summarise, etc. By listening for 
signposts, you will be able to follow what is being said.
Introduction
Welcome the audience:
Introduce the subject: 
Main
body
Background of 
the work of art
Description of 
the work of art
Review of the 
work of art
Conclusion
Making a presentation
Introducing the topic
	 I’m glad to have this opportunity to …
	 Today, I’d like to talk/speak (to you) about …
	 My topic today is …
	 I’d like to share some thoughts on …
Starting a point
	 Let me/Let’s start by …
	 First, let me tell you about …
	 I’ve divided my topic into … parts: … 
	 Let’s turn now to …
Giving an example
	 For instance, …
	 For example, …
	 Take ... for example, … 
	 Let me illustrate, …
	 To illustrate, …
	 Let me give you an example, …
Summarising the points
	 In conclusion, … 
	 To conclude, …
	 In short, …
	 To sum up, … 
	 All in all, …
	 In brief, …
UNIT 1  ART
7

===== PAGE 15 =====
Using Language
ANCIENT CHINESE ART ON SHOW
The Richfield Museum of Fine Art is proud to present our new exhibition, “From Shang to Qing: 
Chinese Art Through the Ages.” Join us as we explore more than 3,000 years of wonderful art 
from the Middle Kingdom. From bronze bowls to ceramic vases, and jade sculptures to ink wash 
paintings, our goal is to display the Chinese artistic genius from ancient times.
The highlight of this exhibition is the painting Clearing After Snow on a 
Mountain Pass, one of the great works of Tang Yin (1470–1524). Born during 
the Ming Dynasty, Tang sought and failed to gain entry into the civil service, 
so he turned to painting instead. In time, he gained recognition as one of the 
greatest artists China has ever known. This painting, showing high mountains, 
trees, and houses covered in snow, was made with extraordinary skill. Though it 
is over 500 years old, it looks as fresh and full of life as the day it was created.
Also of primary note is a collection of nearly 100 bronze objects from the Shang 
Dynasty (1600 BCE–1046 BCE). While the artists who made these great works are 
not known, they showed great skill in creating these beautiful pieces. Some of the 
items on display are thought to have come from the collection of Emperor Qianlong 
(1711–1799), a great admirer of Shang Dynasty bronze.
Finally, we have many fine examples of Tang Dynasty (618–907) sculptures. Most of these are 
of Buddhist origin. Even though Buddhism entered China much earlier, it did not really begin to 
show expansion until the seventh century. During this same period, trade along the Silk Road also 
boomed. Chinese sculpture thus found itself highly influenced by Buddhist art brought from India 
and Central Asia through the Silk Road. These works were intended to spread Buddhism and they 
are of exceptional beauty and quality. Looking at the faces of the figures in these 
sculptures, one sees the faces of the past. History is brought to life.
This is just a small taste of what is in store for you in this exhibition. We guarantee 
that “From Shang to Qing: Chinese Art Through the Ages” will transport you to 
another time with its amazing collection of works. 
“From Shang to Qing: Chinese Art Through the Ages” will run until November 25. 
Opening hours are from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., from Tuesday to Sunday (the museum 
is closed on Mondays). No one will be admitted into the exhibition after 4:30 p.m. 
Admission: $10 for adults; $8 for students; $5 for children under 12; free for children 
under 5.
No photos or food and drink are allowed in the museum.
8
UNIT 1  ART
1    Read the text and discuss for whom it was written.
Write an art exhibition announcement

===== PAGE 16 =====
UNIT 1  ART
9
Highlights: 
• The painting Clearing After Snow on a Mountain Pass, by 
. 
• A collection of nearly 100 
. 
• Many fine examples of 
. 
You will 
. 
Date: Now until 
. 
Opening hours: 
 a.m. to 
 p.m.
	
	
Museum is closed on 
.
Tickets: Adults $
, Students $
, Children under 12 $5, 
                 Children under 5 free
No photos or food and drink allowed in museum.
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use this checklist to give feedback on your 
partner’s draft.
5	 Get your draft back and revise it. Then put up your announcement in the classroom.
3	 You are now going to write an announcement for art club members about a trip to 
see an exhibition.
2	 Read the text again and complete the advertising leaflet below.
1	 Work in groups. Brainstorm the details about the exhibition and take notes. For example:
	
• What is the exhibition about? 	
• Where shall you meet?
	
• What are the highlights?	
• How are you going to get there?
	
• When are you going?	
• What should you bring?
2	 Write your announcement based on your notes.  
To: 
From: 
Subject: On 
, we will go to see 
. 
This exhibition is …
 Is the announcement clear and to the point?
 Is all the necessary information about the exhibition and the trip included?
 Does the writer use correct grammar, punctuation, and spelling?
NEW  EXHIBITION
“
”
More than 
 of wonderful art from China on display.
RICHFIELD 
MUSEUM 
OF FINE ART
THE 

===== PAGE 17 =====
1    Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.
2    Use your own ideas to complete the sentences, using infinitives as the predicative.
3    Look at the paintings below and identify each painting style. Explain how you know.
	 What new information concerning art have you learnt from this unit?
	 Which artist mentioned in the unit do you like most? Why?
	 Which art style would you like to learn more about? Why?
	 Which part of this unit did you find the most difficult? How did you overcome it?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
dimension    emerge    exhibition    guarantee    investment
purchase    recognition    representative    visual
Assessing Your Progress
1	 The first principle for any art collector is to 
 only what you love. 
2	 If you are not interested in works of art by classical masters, contemporary art by 
 artists is also worthy of your attention.
3	 In the art market, no one can 
 that an artist will be a good 
.
4	 The art competition gives young artists a chance to gain 
 from the most 
respected art professionals.
5	 Different from other 
 art forms, sculpture operates in three 
.
6	 The 
 From Rembrandt to Vermeer is quite 
 of the Dutch Golden 
Age of art.
1	 If you want to learn how to paint, my advice is 
.
2	 My plan for the summer holiday is 
.
3	 The most challenging thing for me might be 
.
4	 My ideal job is 
.
5	 If you want to be successful, the least you could do now is 
.
6	 What I want to do this weekend is 
.
10
UNIT 1  ART

===== PAGE 18 =====
* Project: Do a talk show about an artist
You are going to make a role-play of a talk show which has a famous artist as the guest.
1	 In groups, brainstorm a list of famous artists and their representative works. 
Here are some ideas.
2	 Decide on which artist your group is going to talk about.
3	 Choose one person to be the talk show host, one person to be the artist, and the 
remaining members to be a family member, a friend, a teacher, or an art critic. 
Have each person do research on the artist and prepare notes on what he/she will say.
4	 Now role-play your talk show before your class.
La Primavera, by Sandro Botticelli (1445–1510)
Le Poète, by Auguste 
Rodin (1840–1917)
Shrimps, by Qi Baishi
(1864–1957 )
• talk show host: questions for the guests
• artist: biography of the artist, philosophy towards art, details about his/her most 
representative works
• family: What was the artist like when he/she was a child or growing up? What was it like 
living with the artist? What do they think of the artist’s talent and work?
• friend: How did they meet the artist? What is the artist like as a person? What do they think 
of the artist and his work?
• teacher: What was the artist like as a student? Could he/she imagine that the artist would 
grow up to be famous?
• art critic: How is the artist’s work critically received?
Notes for doing the talk show:
• Keep in mind that guests may have different opinions as to what the artist is like 
and how talented he/she was, so they should feel free to disagree and discuss.
• If possible, the group should also find large photos or posters of the artist’s 
representative work to be used as talk show exhibits.
• Towards the end of the talk show, the host should go out into the “audience” 
(i.e., the class) and take questions from the audience.
UNIT 1  ART
11

===== PAGE 19 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
What do you know about the Chinese painting Qingming Shang He Tu? Read 
the statements below and decide whether they are true (T) or false (F). 
1	 Qingming Shang He Tu is no more than 24 cm wide and 520 cm long. 
2	 The painting was once lost for some time and hundreds of copies 
      were made. 
3	 It is believed that the version in the Palace Museum is the Song Dynasty 
      original painting. 
4	 The painting shows life along the Yellow River during the Qingming Festival. 
5	 The painting scroll also includes a short biography of Zhang Zeduan 
      and the seals of its previous owners.
WHILE  YOU WATCH	
1   Check the answers in Before You Watch.
2   Take notes about the details that are displayed in the painting.
	Left 	
Right
The city
The first city 
gate
The roads 
leading to 
the city 
The Rainbow
Bridge
The road and 
the river
The countryside
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss the following questions in groups.
1	 What does the following statement mean: “This painting’s great appeal is that it provides us 
with a look into ordinary people’s lives in the Song Dynasty”? Who do you think the painting 
is most appealing to?
2	 Do you know of any other paintings like this one?
Qingming Shang He Tu
One of the most famous Chinese paintings in the 
world is the Qingming Shang He Tu or Along the River 
During the Qingming Festival, by Zhang Zeduan, a 
court painter for the emperor during the Northern 
Song Dynasty. 
* Video Time
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
12
UNIT 1  ART

===== PAGE 20 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
HEALTHY 
LIFESTYLE
UNIT 2
    Look and discuss
1  How do you think the people feel in the 
photos?
2  Do you think they are all leading a healthy 
lifestyle? Why or why not?
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about developing a healthy lifestyle.
2  hear and talk about breaking and building 
habits.
3  read about making good lifestyle choices and 
write your own story.
4  explore a lifestyle experiment and its results.
The greatest wealth 
is health.
—Virgil 
13

===== PAGE 21 =====
Reading and Thinking
14