UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
Learn to develop good health habits
1	 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
2	 Read the text and find out what main ideas 
are included in it. Tick the correct ones.
HABITS FOR A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
1	 Are bad habits easy to change? Why or why not?
2	 What habits do you think are unhealthy?
3	 What can you do to correct these bad habits?
As teenagers grow up, they become more independent and start making their own 
decisions. However, during this period, it can be easy for some of them to form bad 
habits. These bad habits, if left unchecked, could lead to more serious ones when they 
become adults. For example, some of them may become involved in tobacco or alcohol 
abuse, which can lead to physical and mental health problems. To prevent harmful 
habits like these from dominating a teenager’s life is essential. They must learn to 
recognise bad habits early and make appropriate changes. 
To change bad habits is never easy, even with many attempts. There is a famous saying 
based on the philosophy of Aristotle: “We are what we repeatedly do.” In many ways, 
our lifestyle is the sum of choices we have made. We make a choice to do something, 
and then we repeat it over and over again. Soon that choice becomes automatic and 
forms a habit that is much harder to change. The good news is that we can change, if we 
understand how habits work.
According to modern psychology, we must first learn 
about the “habit cycle”, which works like this:
•	 Firstly, there is a “cue”, an action, event, or 
	
situation that acts as a signal to do something.
•	 Secondly, there is a “routine”, the regular action 
	
you take in response to the cue.
•	 Thirdly, there is the “reward”, the good thing or 
	
feeling we get from the routine.
THE 
HABIT 
CYCLE
ROUTINE
REWARD
CUE
Find the main idea of a 
paragraph
The main idea is sometimes 
stated in either the opening or 
closing sentence. If not, look for 
another “standout” sentence, or 
summarise the paragraph in your 
mind by asking yourself,  “What is 
it mainly about?”
	 A  How to change a bad habit and create good ones
	 B  The cycle of how habits are formed
	 C  Habits that can help us study better
	 D  Changing habits gradually
	 E  No easy way to change bad habits
	 F  What a habit is 
	 G  Why bad teenage habits should be changed

===== PAGE 22 =====
ROUTINE
CUE
REWARD
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
15
3	 Read the text again and answer the questions.
4	 Work in groups. Complete the tasks.
For example, when we feel unhappy (cue), we eat lots of unhealthy snacks (routine), 
which makes us feel happy (reward). The reward makes us much more likely to 
continue the cycle, and the bad habit of relying on unhealthy snacks is formed.
To facilitate a positive change in our bad habits, we must first examine our bad habit 
cycles and then try to adapt them. We can do this by combining the information from 
our habit cycles with our own positive ideas. For example, we could try to replace a 
negative routine with something more positive. So, when we feel unhappy again (cue), 
rather than eat snacks, we could listen to some of our favourite music instead (routine), 
which will make us feel relaxed (reward). Aside from changing bad habits, we can also 
use the habit cycle to create good habits. For example, when we come to an escalator 
(cue), our normal routine is to ride it, but we could change this routine into something 
more positive by taking the stairs instead. 
Many of us try to change bad habits quickly, and if we are not successful straight away, 
we often become pessimistic and give up. In fact, the most successful way to change 
is not suddenly, but over a period of time. As the Chinese philosopher Laozi wrote, 
“A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.” One step seems small, but 
it is essential. To reach the goal of change, a person must show some discipline and 
repeatedly take many small steps. After all, it is not easy to break bad habits.
For young people, there is plenty of time to change bad habits. However, there is no 
“magic pill” or delete button that will help you; you have to think about your bad habits 
and decide on some changes. You have the power to build a happy and healthy life full 
of good habits!
1	 How can a choice lead to a habit?
2	 What are the three stages of the habit cycle?
3	 What should we do to change a bad habit?
4	 How can a person use discipline to help change a bad habit?
5	 Will you use the habit cycle to break your bad habits? Why or why not?
1	 Think of one bad habit and write down the cue, 
routine, and reward. Then come up with an 
idea of how to break the bad habit.
2	 Do you know any alternative ways to better 
habits? Discuss with your partner which way 
you think is most effective.

===== PAGE 23 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary 
2	 Find “verb + a habit” collocations from the previous text. Then make 
sentences with them.
3	 Complete the passage using the correct forms of the words in the box. Add 
more sentences or paragraphs to the passage if possible.
examine       dominate       facilitate       rely on
alcohol	
appropriate	
cue	
cycle	
negative 
pill	
psychology	
reward	
tobacco	
discipline
Simply speaking, a healthy lifestyle is about finding the right balance and making good choices.
Life is composed of many elements, such as family, friends, study, work, entertainment, and 
so on. If one element 
 your life and the others are ignored, you will lose balance and 
not feel good.
Carefully 
 your daily activities. Your health 
 what you choose to do in your daily 
life. A healthy lifestyle is generally a balanced life in which you make wise choices. Neither too 
much nor too little is good. 
Slowly 
 changes in your lifestyle by using a step-by-step process. You do not have to 
change everything at once. Make small changes each day and your lifestyle will become healthier.
form a habit
change a habit
16
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
1	 Complete the summary using the words from the box below.
Teenagers often have bad habits. Most can be stopped by taking 
 action. However, 
habits like 
 and 
 abuse can lead to serious addictions. According 
to modern 
, to change bad habits, we must first analyse them using the “habit 
”. To fix or improve a bad habit, we must first find out what the 
 is. Then 
we must change the old 
 routine to something more positive. If successful, we will 
feel a sense of 
 and our bad habit may disappear. Changing a bad habit is difficult, 
and it is easy to make excuses and give up. We need to make up our minds and show some 
, and make small changes over time. There is no magic 
 to help us, but 
changing will ensure we have a happy and healthy life!

===== PAGE 24 =====
Discover useful structures
1	 To change bad habits is never easy.
2	 It took the surgeon three hours to finish my mother’s lung surgery.
3	 To join the People’s Liberation Army, it is required for men to shave off their beards.
4	 It was not polite to disturb your neighbours with loud music last night.
begin with    be in control of    make a choice    decide on    make up one’s mind
1	 important / avoid / passive cigarette smoking
	
It is important to avoid passive cigarette smoking.
2	 will take / nutrition specialist / a balanced diet menu / make / an hour / for you
	
3	 useful / turn to / fitness consultant / for advice
	
4	 illegal / dangerous / take / drugs
	
5	 harmful / skip breakfast / often
	
1	 A:	Hello, doctor. I want to lose weight, but I just can’t seem to do it. What can you do to 
	
	
help me?
	
B:	Well, first, it’s necessary to 
 what you eat. Cut out all fatty food and sugary  
	
	
drinks, and eat more fruit and vegetables.
2	 A:	I really need to 
 a way to exercise more. I could use a fitness app, but my 
	
	
phone’s full.
	
B:	So delete a few files. I’m sure the app doesn’t take up much space.
3	 A:	Before exercising, always do a few warm-ups to 
.
	
B:	I know. But then I always feel too tired to continue!
4	 A:	Should I go for the pizza or the fried chicken? I hate 
 like these. You 
	
	
know what—I’m going to eat both!
	
B:	Wow! Don’t eat too much junk food—you’ll get fat. I’ve actually 
 to go on a 
	
	
diet, so I’ll just stick to the fruit salad. 
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
17
1	 Look at the following sentences and pay attention to the italicised infinitives. 
Find more infinitives in the reading passage. In pairs, discuss their meanings 
and functions.
2	 Join the words to make full sentences, and then join the sentences to make 
a paragraph. You can add your own sentences if necessary to make your 
paragraph more meaningful.
3	 Complete the conversations with the correct forms of the phrases in the box.

===== PAGE 25 =====
Using Language
1    Look at the pictures. What choices or preferences make it easier for people to 
develop these bad habits?
2    Listen to the conversation and complete the table below.
3    Listen again and answer these questions.
Give advice on changing bad habits
1	
Why is a good night’s sleep important for the first student?
2	
Why does the second student never exercise?
3	
What is the expert’s bad habit? Do you think it is a health problem?
4	
What would you advise the expert to do to control this habit?
2 using a phone too much
1  not sleeping enough
5 drinking too much coffee
4 overspending
3 overeating
Student 2
Student 1
Information
Problem
Cue
Routine
Reward
18
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE

===== PAGE 26 =====
Listening and Speaking
4    Decide whether these statements from the conversation are facts (F) or opinions 
(O). Discuss the opinions with a partner and see if you agree on them.
5    Work in pairs. Choose a bad habit from the box below and have a conversation 
with your partner about it. The expressions below may help you.
It is important to know whether what the 
speakers say is a fact or an opinion. An 
opinion is a subjective statement and a 
fact is objective. A fact is what really is true, 
while an opinion is what you believe, often 
using phrases like “I think/believe”, “in my 
opinion”,  “to me”, and so on.
Distinguish facts from opinions
       EXAMPLE
A:	 I think I’m watching too much TV.
B:	 Yeah. Me too.
C:	 In my opinion, you should spend your time on something more active instead. 
For example, try to get more exercise.
B:	 OK, sure, I’ll try that.
A:	 That’s a nice thought, but I don’t really enjoy exercising.
C:	 Hmm. How about reading more books instead?
A: 	All right, maybe I can try that.
1	
 It was a really interesting talk.
2	
 It often takes me half an hour to fall 
                    asleep at night.
3	
 You look tired. Not enough sleep,    
                    right?
4	
 It is affecting my schoolwork.
5	
 I failed in all my school subjects this 
                    semester.
6	
 I usually pick up my phone.
7	
 I think the phone is the problem.
8	
 A five-minute walk is so easy that it is hard to say no!
sleeping too much	
overeating	
game addict	
TV addict
Internet addict	
staying up too late	
overspending
•  My problem is … 
•  I’m having problems with … 
•  I cannot stop … 
•  Please give me some advice about …
•  I think/believe you should … 
•  So, why don’t you …? 
•  Well, have you thought about …?  
•  In my opinion, …
Asking for and giving advice
•  Sure, I’ll do that. 
•  That’s a good idea! 
•  That’s just what I need! 
•  Lovely! 
•  Great! 
•  Terrific idea!
•  Sorry, but I … 
•  I’d like/love to …, but … 
•  That’s a good idea, but … 
•  Thank you for telling me, but … 
•  It’s a nice thought, but …  
•  I cannot … because …
Accepting and refusing advice
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
19

===== PAGE 27 =====
Using Language
1	 Two students attended the summer camp organised by the magazine Healthy Life 
and wrote to the editor. Read the letters and then complete the table on page 21.
Write a letter to the editor about your lifestyle
20
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
Dear Editor,
As I took part in the summer camp about 
personal life choices, I started to analyse my 
choices, especially what I did to relax and how 
it was affecting my whole life.
After starting high school, I felt stressed 
out and always relaxed by playing computer 
games. I got so absorbed that I played the 
games day and night. Playing was fun, but I 
felt even more worn out afterwards! So after 
the camp, I realised that it was very, very 
important to adjust my lifestyle. I decided to 
take control of my life and find other ways to 
relax.
It was a big struggle not to join my friends 
in playing online games as I’m mad for them. 
However, I realised that to succeed in quitting, 
I had to replace it with something else. So 
I thought about what to try. Rock climbing, 
bowling, watching comedies, and playing 
basketball were the things I thought of doing 
instead.
Now my dad and I go rock climbing together 
monthly! It has enhanced the quality of my 
life, improving my health and increasing my 
happiness. I get refreshed through climbing, 
spend more time with my dad, and get to meet 
new friends.
After six months of trying out new ways of 
relaxing, I feel much more energetic. I feel that 
I can change myself for the better. And if that’s 
true for me, then it might truly be possible to 
change the world for the better. As Gandhi said, 
“Be the change you want to see in the world.” 
Sincerely,
George Fielding
Dear Editor,
After I attended your summer camp about 
health and lifestyle choices, I realised I hardly 
ever felt well, either physically or mentally. I 
often felt sleepy and dizzy, and lacked passion. 
Most worrying, though, I got the flu easily and 
experienced many toothaches, too.
At the end of the camp I heard, “Change the 
world by changing yourself.” This stimulated 
my motivation. A dentist once examined me 
and told me that too much sugar in my meals 
had damaged my teeth and health. I made up 
my mind to change two things in my life: to eat 
nothing with sugar and to exercise regularly.
After that I stopped buying all the sweets, 
biscuits, and sugary drinks that I used to have 
every day. Whenever I went out with friends, I 
brought snacks from home, things that didn’t have 
any added sugar: fruit, nuts, dried meat, etc. 
My exercise was very simple: I went outside 
every day for at least 30 minutes and did 
something active. Sometimes I played table tennis 
or badminton with my cousins. Other times I 
jumped on my skateboard and rode around my 
neighbourhood, or just took a long walk.
The results have been fantastic. I feel more 
dynamic and stronger than ever, in both body 
and mind. I sleep soundly at night now. I no 
longer suffer from a flu virus or toothaches 
either. Best of all, in my opinion, is how I feel 
about myself. I feel like I’m in control of my 
own life. To make choices about myself is 
within my own power. I CAN change myself. I 
just need to try.
Yours truly,
Wang Lu

===== PAGE 28 =====
3	 Write a letter to the editor about one aspect of your own lifestyle that you would 
like to change.
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use this checklist to give feedback on your 
partner’s draft.
5	 Get your draft back and revise it. Then share your letter with the rest of the class.
Wang Lu
George Fielding
Problem
• did not feel 
• felt 
, lacked 
• got 
, experienced 
• felt 
• felt even more 
 after 
Decision
• to 
• to 
• to 
 
	
Action
• stopped 
• exercises every day for 
 	
• goes 
	
Result
• more 
 in  
	
 
• sleeps 
, no longer 
• feels like 
• feels much more 
• feels he can 
2	 Analyse the organisation of the letters. Label the paragraphs using the letters 
below. Some paragraphs may cover more than one topic.
A  identifying problem(s)	
B  considering what to do 
C  what he/she has done to change	
D  the results
	
 Does the letter say what the writer’s problem is?
	
 Does the letter explain the decisions the writer made to solve the problem?
	
 Does the letter show the ways to change?
	
 Are the results included in the letter?
	
 Can you see the writer’s attitude and determination in the letter?
	
 Is the letter clear and complete? 
1	
Brainstorm with your partner.
	
• What lifestyle habit you would like to change
	
• Why you want to change
	
• How you plan to change
	
• What result you hope to see
2	
Draft your letter to the editor. Use the organisation of the letters above to help you.
Information
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
21

===== PAGE 29 =====
Assessing Your Progress
	 Do you know what a healthy lifestyle is after finishing this unit?
	 What is the most useful thing that you have learnt in this unit?
	 How can you use what you have learnt to improve your lifestyle?
	 What new words and expressions have you learnt in this unit?
	 Can you use the infinitive as the subject properly in different situations?
	 Overall, I thought this unit was  
 cool  
 useful  
 just OK  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
1	 Complete the passage using the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 There are eight mistakes underlined in the passage. Correct them, read the 
passage again, and then give a title to it.
monthly    disturb    harmful    cigarette    surgery    consultant
My father used to smoke 
 far too often and was always coughing, which 
 me greatly. One day, I spoke to the health 
 at my school. He said 
the nicotine in tobacco is 
 and can do great damage to my father’s lungs. Then 
I persuaded my father to see a lung specialist. The specialist said my father should make a 
 plan to smoke less, otherwise he may need 
 in the future. I’m so 
glad my father agreed to make a plan to break his bad habit!
It is not easy to manage stress successfully. When you are stressed, every problem 
you have seems become worse. Serious stress can also lead to health issues, 
such as dizziness, skin conditions, and breathing problems. So that is best to find 
a solution as soon as possible. For minor stress, to wash your face with cold water 
or go for a short walk outside. To fight long-term stress, it is a great idea taken up a 
new hobby. Do something you really like—to ride a skateboard, go bowling, or watch 
a comedy—whatever stimulates your mind and makes you feel happy. Absorbing 
stress effectively, however, you must be sure to do something that completely takes 
your mind off everything else. If you can find something else to concentrate for a 
while, you will most certainly feel much more refreshed later on. So remember, to 
free yourself from stress, try and find something positive replace it with. After all, it is 
far too stressful to stress all the time!
22
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE

===== PAGE 30 =====
*Project: Do a health survey
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
23
1	 How well are your classmates looking after their physical and mental health? 
Work in groups and make a survey. Design a multiple-choice questionnaire 
to collect information. Use online survey tools if possible to help you make, 
distribute, and analyse your questionnaires.
2	 Each person in your group should help make the survey. Then ask classmates 
outside your group to take the survey.
3	 Collect and analyse the survey results by creating pie charts, bar charts, or other 
ways of summarising data.
4	 Prepare a written or oral report, giving general recommendations for how to 
solve the most common lifestyle problems that you have found among your 
classmates.
PHYSICAL HEALTH
1	 Ask questions about what to eat and drink, such as staple foods, snacks, drinks, and other 
	
substances, etc.
       		
EXAMPLE
	
How often do you skip meals?
	
 never   
 once a day   
 several times a week   
 others: 
2	 Ask questions about what to do with one’s body, such as sitting, exercise, sleeping, etc.
MENTAL HEALTH
1	 Ask questions about what people do in their spare time, such as reading, watching TV, using
	
phone/Internet, playing video games, etc.
2	 Ask questions about what people do to feel better when they are stressed, unhappy, or angry.
3	 Ask questions about what to do with one’s mind, such as learning new things for fun, doing 
	
creative activities, etc.
       EXAMPLE
How Often Meals Are Skipped

===== PAGE 31 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Look at the pictures below and answer the questions.
1  What do you think these people are doing?
	
A  Singing.    B  Practising laughter yoga.    C  Doing belly laughs.
2  Why do you think they are doing this?
	
A  To amuse themselves.
	
B  To tell everyone how happy they are.
	
C  To reduce the likelihood of a heart attack or stroke.
3  How do you think they feel?
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1   Check your answers in Before You Watch. 
2   Answer these questions.
1	 What do adults not necessarily remember?
2	 Aside from making us feel good, what else does laughter do according to research?
3	 What happens when you have 5−10 minutes of laughter, besides your blood vessels 
opening up like you have gone jogging or taken cholesterol medication?
4	 What does it mean when we say that laughter is contagious?
5	 What will a mother usually do if she tickles her baby and the baby fusses or cries?
6	 Which do you think is more important for bringing out the benefits of laughter, the act of 
laughing or the social interaction connected to it? What are your reasons? 	
  	
 	
           	
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss these questions in groups.
1	 How does laughter make you feel?
2	 What is your way to make other people laugh? Do you think the ability to create laughter 
is some kind of talent?
Did Laughter Evolve to Make Us 
Healthy?
Laughter is a natural medicine for preserving 
our health. It helps us to ease pain, feel 
good, keep the blood vessels healthy, and is 
good for our soul and heart.
* Video Time
1
2
3
24
UNIT 2  HEALTHY LIFESTYLE

===== PAGE 32 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
3
UNIT 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION
Earth provides enough to 
satisfy every man’s needs, 
but not every man’s greed. 
—Mohandas K. Gandhi 
    In this unit, you will 
1	 read about different environmental problems. 
2	 listen to an interview with an expert and talk about 
air pollution. 
3	 write a report on an environmental issue.
4	 learn more about environmental issues and ways to 
protect our planet. 
    Look and discuss
1	 Where do you think this photo was taken?
2	 What does this photo make you think of?
25

===== PAGE 33 =====
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, look at the graph and the picture below and discuss these 
questions in groups.
2	 Read the text and answer the questions. 
Discuss climate change
1	 What is the graph about? What information can you get from it?  
2	 Have you ever seen the photo before? What might be the story behind it?
1	 What happened to the polar bear in the photo? Why did the writer write about it?
2	 Why is the “natural” greenhouse effect important and necessary? 
3	 What are the consequences of high greenhouse gas emissions?
4	 Why did the author mention the climate scientists’ warning? 
5	 What is the author’s purpose of writing this text?
In 2013, a lot of people were shocked by a news photo of a dead polar bear that was found on 
Norway’s Arctic island of Svalbard. According to the scientists who found its dead body, all that 
remained of the polar bear was “skin and bones”. An expert who has studied polar bears for 
many years said that from the position of its dead body, the bear appeared to have starved and 
died. Experts claimed that low sea-ice levels caused by climate change meant the bear could 
not hunt seals as before, so it had to travel greater distances in order to find food. This alarming 
case showed how the increase in temperature had an impact on Earth’s ecology. 
Then what is causing the increase in the global average surface temperature? Climate scientists 
often mention a key climate process called the “greenhouse effect”, which has two common 
meanings: the “natural” greenhouse effect and the “man-made” greenhouse effect. The “natural” 
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1920
1928
1936
1944
1952
1960
1968
1976
1984
1992
2000
2008
2016
Temperature Anomaly (C)
YEAR
Global Surface Temperature: 1920-2016 Base Period
Temperature Anomaly (℃)
26
CLIMATE CHANGE REQUIRES THE WORLD’S ATTENTION
We have known about climate change for decades. There is little doubt that Earth is getting 
warmer and warmer (see the graph). A warming ocean and atmosphere along with melting ice 
and rising sea levels provide evidence of a dramatic change in the global climate.

===== PAGE 34 =====
greenhouse effect refers to the fact that heat from the sun enters the atmosphere and warms 
Earth’s surface as short-wave radiation. The heat is released back into space at longer 
wave lengths. Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, such as methane and carbon dioxide, 
trap some of the heat, keeping Earth’s climate warm and habitable. Without this process, 
Earth could not sustain life. However, the “man-made” greenhouse effect has now become 
a big problem. When people produce huge amounts of extra greenhouse gases by burning 
fossil fuels, more heat energy is trapped in the atmosphere and causes Earth’s surface 
temperature to rise quickly. 
There is strong and comprehensive evidence that the rise in temperature has led to an 
increase in extreme weather and natural disasters worldwide, not only causing serious 
damage, but also costing human lives. Climate scientists have warned that if we do not take 
appropriate actions, this warming trend will probably continue and there will be a higher 
price to pay. In fact, news reports are frequently broadcast about extreme rainstorms and 
heatwaves causing deaths and economic losses. 
Continued greenhouse gas emissions will result in further warming and long-lasting changes to 
the global climate. This requires the attention of people all over the world. Governments need to 
consider making policies and taking appropriate actions and measures to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. We as individuals can also reduce our “carbon footprint” by restricting the 
amount of carbon dioxide our lifestyles produce. It is our responsibility to seize every opportunity 
to educate everyone about global warming, along with its causes and impacts, because this is 
the most serious issue affecting all of us on this planet. So what will you do to help?
3	 Read the text again and create a diagram describing how the greenhouse effect 
works.
4	 Discuss these questions in groups.
1	 What examples of extreme weather and disasters do you know? Can you make a list? 
2	 Do you think climate change is the result of human activity? Give your reasons. 
3	 Who do you think should take responsibility for dealing with climate change? What can we do?
Draw a diagram
Diagrams are very useful tools that can be used to 
brainstorm ideas, map out processes, show cause and 
effect relationships, explain a new idea or concept, and 
so on. When you read an essay about scientific issues, 
you can try drawing a diagram, which will not only 
allow you to visualise the problems more clearly but 
also can help demonstrate your creative thinking and 
problem-solving. 
27

===== PAGE 35 =====
Learning About Language
1	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words in the box. 
3	 The following words and phrases can all mean “to make something happen”. 
Look them up in the dictionary and discuss their differences. Then create 
sentences of your own using each of them.
Build up your vocabulary
broadcast         comprehensive         ecology        starve         seize   
fuel         policy         release         restrict         sustain         trend
• cause         • be responsible for          • bring about        • lead to         • result in 
1	 The Amazon basin, known as the “lungs of the world”, not only provides some 
 
balance for the planet, but also food and resources for the local natives.
2	 Thousands of baby penguins 
 to death because the changing climate forced 
their parents to leave them and travel long distances in search of food.
3	 Many experts link China’s economic success to the 
 reform that China has 
undergone since 1978. 
4	 The speaker said the media should make more 
 that spread awareness of the 
climate crisis and possible solutions. 
5	 To deal with climate change, we must 
 the initiative to do whatever is 
necessary to protect our environment.
Carbon dioxide is 
 through human activities such as destroying forests and burning 
fossil 
, as well as natural processes such as volcanic eruptions. The measurements 
by climate experts show a rising 
 of carbon dioxide emissions. If this continues, our 
planet will face further environmental disasters. In response to this environmental issue, China 
is implementing significant 
 and measures to address climate change, aiming to 
 coal consumption, promote a harmonious relationship between man and nature, 
build a 
 energy system, and advocate a moderate, green, and low-carbon lifestyle. 
	
EXAMPLE
•	
According to the report submitted by researchers, between 20 and 25 percent of all annual 
carbon dioxide emissions are caused by the destruction of tropical forests.
•	
A breakdown in the computer system was responsible for yesterday’s chaos in the subway 
station.
28