UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

===== PAGE 36 =====
1	 Work in groups. Look at the sentences in both columns and discuss the 
differences between each pair. Summarise the rules for changing direct 
speech into indirect speech.
2	 Here are some statements and questions by children who attended scientific 
lectures. Guess who they were talking to and then change the sentences into 
indirect speech. 
3	 Work in groups. Do a survey on what your group members are doing to help 
the environment and what else they can do. Then report to the class. 
Discover useful structures 
Direct Speech
Indirect Speech
1 The expert said, “From the position of its 
dead body, the bear appeared to have 
starved and died.”
The expert said that from the position of its 
dead body, the bear appeared to have starved 
and died.
2 The reporter asked, “Will polar bears die out 
because of climate change?”
The reporter asked whether polar bears would 
die out because of climate change. 
3 The reporter asked, “How can we  save polar 
bears from extinction?”
The reporter asked how we could save polar 
bears from extinction.
4 “Let’s work together to stop climate change,” 
the expert said. 
The expert advised us to work together to stop 
climate change. 
Name
Statements/Questions
Diane
“What made Hurricane Katrina unusual?”
“Was it the worst natural disaster in American history?”
Martha
“I want to become a scientist and help the world.”
“I’m doing a project on behalf of my school about global warming.”
Bob
“Why is nuclear power a sensitive topic?”
“Could you explain how the nuclear disaster happened?”
Laura
“How many animals have disappeared because of human hunting?”
“What can we do to help wild animals?”
Vincent
“I’ve never been to the Amazon Jungle.”
“Will scientists discover new species there?”
Michelle
I always use my cloth bag when I go shopping, rather than use plastic bags.
Jack
I often walk or ride a bike instead of taking a taxi.
Sally
Don’t print out documents unless really necessary.
Joe
Would it be best to share books with others?
	
EXAMPLE
I asked my group members what they did to limit the amount of carbon dioxide produced in their 
daily lives. Jack told me that he often walked or rode a bike instead of taking a taxi. Joe advised 
us to share books with others. Sally asked us ... 
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
29

===== PAGE 37 =====
Using Language
Talk about air pollution
1	 Before you listen, look at the pictures below and discuss the questions in groups.
2	 Listen to an interview with an air pollution expert and decide whether the 
statements are true (T) or false (F). 
1	 The expression “smog” originated in Britain and means a combination 
	
of “smoke” and “fog”.	
T
F
2	 Smog became a severe problem in Britain because people at that time 
      burnt lots of fossil fuels.	
T
F
3	 The worst smog in British history happened in London in 1942.	
T
F
4	 The Great Smog of London claimed 5,000 lives.	
T
F
5	 Later, the UK government ordered people not to burn wood in their homes.	
 T
F
1	 What information can you get from 
these pictures? 
2	 How do these situations influence 
your life? 
30
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

===== PAGE 38 =====
4	 Work in groups. Discuss the questions. The expressions in the box may help you.
1	 Have you experienced heavy smog where you live? Have you seen photos of big cities 
under clouds of smog? What is it like?
2	 What do you think are the major causes of smog in China? 
3	 What measures have the government and citizens taken to help address the problem?
Summarise information
In active listening, summarising 
helps you review the key points of a 
speaker’s message. In order to write 
a good summary,  you must take 
notes of the most important points 
as you listen. When summarising, 
you need to be as concise as 
possible and use your own words.
Vehicle restriction
Tree planting
3	 Listen again and take notes on what the expert 
said. Then summarise the information you got 
from the interview.
Ben Drake, an expert on air pollution, is being 
interviewed on the radio. He said that smog was a 
severe problem 
 century 
in Britain. At that time, Britain was experiencing 
a boom in 
. Factories 
and homes 
, which created smog. He also mentioned 
the heavy smog in London 
 in 1952. Later the UK 
government restricted 
 in homes and forced factories to 
.  As smog is harmful to everyone, the expert advised us 
to 
, use 
, and further develop 
. 
•  Everyone knows that …	
          •  There is no doubt that …	
•  Most people think that …	
          •  We all know that …	
•  As is known to all, …	
          •  It is obvious that …
Referring to common knowledge
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
31

===== PAGE 39 =====
Using Language
1	 Look at the title and the picture below and discuss the questions. 
2	 Read the report and then answer the questions.
REDUCING WATER POLLUTION IN THE LI RIVER
Write a report on an environmental issue
The beautiful Li River and its amazing surrounding scenery is one of the most well-
known tourist destinations in China’s Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. It attracts 
millions of domestic and foreign visitors each year. However, its reputation as a top 
destination has had negative effects on the river’s water quality. This report looks at 
the problem of water pollution and some actions that have been taken to deal with it.
Previously, water quality in the Li River had suffered greatly from an increasing volume 
of tourists, many of whom frequently threw garbage into the river. Many tour boats 
contributed to the problem too. Kitchens on board were using lots of oil, which was 
often thrown into the water. The growth in tourism also meant the local population rose 
rapidly, as well as the number of commercial and industrial enterprises. Water pollution 
levels increased, with more household and commercial waste ending up in the river. 
In order to feed more people, more chemicals were used to increase crop production. 
These chemicals led to severe water quality issues, causing a decrease in the number 
of fish species. Local officials were concerned that the pollution was damaging the 
natural environment and felt that urgent steps should be taken to restore the river’s 
original beauty. 
A comprehensive initiative was started, with a number of measures that addressed the 
issues. The construction of waste water treatment facilities improved the water quality 
and water conservation. The collection and transport of household waste was also 
improved. Dozens of polluting enterprises were closed or moved. The local government 
set up strict regulations regarding further industrial development. New rules were also 
introduced regarding tour boat routes and garbage disposal methods. Furthermore, 
1	 What do you know about the Li River? Have you ever been there?
2	 What do you think might have caused water pollution in the Li River?
32

===== PAGE 40 =====
3	 Study the organisation and language features.
4	 Use what you have learnt to write a report on an environmental issue.
5	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use this checklist to give feedback on your 
partner’s draft.
6	 Get your draft back and revise it. Then present your report to the class. 
1	 What were some of the negative effects on the Li River as a result of the growth in tourism? 
2	 What measures have been taken to improve the Li River’s water quality?
3	 What is the “River Chief System”?
1	 Read the text again and complete the paragraph summaries.
1	 Choose an environmental problem that directly affects you or your local community.
	
Research the issue on the Internet. Consider the following questions:  
•	What is the issue? Why does it need to be dealt with? 
•	Where does the issue occur? What are its causes? What effects does it have?
•	What actions have been taken so far? What future actions are planned?
•	Has the issue been dealt with well? Is it likely to be solved completely? Why or why not? 
What alternative solutions are possible?
2	 Write your report.
2	 Draw a mind map to show all the factors that caused the pollution.
Paragraph 1
Paragraph 2
Paragraph 3
Paragraph 4
Introducing the topic
Describing the 
Presenting some
Presenting further
	
  Does the writer describe the environmental issue clearly?
	
  Do the measures taken to deal with it sound effective?
	
  Does the writer use correct grammar, punctuation, and spelling?
the local authorities began to use the media to spread environmental awareness and 
encourage greater use of clean energy. At the same time, they started to carry out 
inspections regularly and fine tourist organisations for abuses. With these measures, it 
is believed that the beauty of the Li River will be preserved for generations to come.
In addition, the ambitious “Water Ten Plan” is also now tackling water pollution across 
the country. Other initiatives, such as the “River Chief System”, hold senior officials 
responsible for reducing water pollution. With such campaigns in effect, China’s 
waterways are heading towards a clean and sustainable future.
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
33

===== PAGE 41 =====
Assessing Your Progress
1	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words in the box.
2	 Report the direct speech in Activity 1.
garbage          harmonious         initiative          restrict          restore          dozen
REFLECTING 
  What new words and expressions have you learnt from this unit?
	 Can you report others’ statements, requests, or questions fluently and accurately? If 
not, what are your difficulties?
  What have you learnt about environmental issues from this unit? 
  What are you going to do to help solve the environmental problems we are facing? 
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
When asked by a TV reporter to talk about air and water quality in his hometown, (1) Qi 
Mu noted, “The air is great now, and we can take more walks and enjoy being outdoors 
again.” He felt quite pleased because the villagers were living 
 with nature 
once more. However, he could not forget about an earlier time when his village had 
been struggling with a serious air quality problem. 
In the 1990s, 
 from a nearby city was usually brought to the village. (2) “How 
can we make use of this?” the villagers wondered. Soon they found that garbage could 
be used to feed pigs. (3) “Over the next few years, 
 of pig farms were set 
up,” Qi recalled. But then nobody in the village wanted to open their windows. (4) “The 
smell from the garbage and pig waste was making us sick,” Qi said. The numbers of 
mosquitoes and flies were also horrifying. (5) “Under such circumstances, no single 
women wanted to marry anyone in our village and move here,” Qi sighed.
The villagers could no longer tolerate the situation. So an 
 was launched and 
a “clean-up” campaign was added to the government agenda, including 
 
large vehicles from passing through the village. Garbage from the city was no longer 
disposed of in the village, and more trees were planted. (6) “We can all breathe more 
freely now that the natural beauty of our village has been 
,” said Qi.
1	  
 
2	  
 
3	
 
4	
 
5	
 
6	  
 
34
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

===== PAGE 42 =====
* Project: Prepare an environmental proposal
1	 In groups, discuss the following questions.
1	 What is the main environmental issue you want to address? Choose one from the list 
below, or think of your own.
	
  Plastic bag waste	
  Energy conservation
	
  Waste sorting system for recycling	
  Water conservation
2	 What small things can people do in their community to help? What simple inventions might 
help reduce the impact of the issue? Use the Internet to help you find ideas and take notes.
3	 Will you give advice for people to follow? What is your advice?
2	 Now create your project presentation. Use diagrams and illustrations to show how 
your ideas will work. Use the example below for ideas.
3	 Now present your proposal to the class. Each member should take turns to 
explain or show one part of the presentation.
4	 After hearing all the presentations, discuss which proposals and 
presentations were the best and give suggestions for improving them.
	
•	 Take shorter showers
	
•	 Turn off the light when you are not in the room
	
•	 Instead of turning up the heat, put on more clothes
	
•	 Don’t leave things like TVs and computers on standby
	
•	 Unplug appliances that are not in use
	
•	 Adjust the amount of water for toilet flushes
	
•	 Use cold water to wash clothes when possible
	
•	 Use energy-efficient light bulbs
	
•	 Put lids on cooking pots to cook faster
OUR PROJECT: SAVING ENERGY IN THE HOME
A lot of energy is wasted every day. We can make many small changes in our daily lives to 
help improve energy conservation. Here are our ideas for saving energy in the home:
Following this advice can help reduce 
energy consumption and save money. 
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
35

===== PAGE 43 =====
* Video Time
Green School in Uruguay
This video is about a green school in 
Uruguay that teaches its students about 
recycling, energy saving, and growing their 
own food. Built from recycled materials, the 
school  produces no waste and is powered 
by solar panels.
BEFORE YOU WATCH  
Here are some photos from the video. In groups, use the following words and 
phrases to describe what is going on in the photos.  
WHILE YOU WATCH  
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Answer these questions.
1	 Where is Uruguay?
2	 Why is the school “autonomous”?
3	 What nickname does the US architect Michael Reynolds call himself?
4	 Who else other than the students learn from the workshops?
5	 How does one student educate his mother about waste?
AFTER  YOU WATCH  
Discuss these questions in groups.
	
1	 Do you know any similar projects in your city or country? How do people reuse and 
recycle trash to create new things and technologies?
	
2	 In small groups, discuss other ways trash could be reused and recycled. What things 
could you make? What kinds of trash could you use?
solar panels	
trash	
school	
reuse 	
build 
tin cans	
plants	
volunteers	
grow food	
collect 
old car tyres	
learn	
children	
teach
1
4
2
5
3
6
36
UNIT 3  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

===== PAGE 44 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
Great works are performed not 
by strength, but perseverance.
—Samuel Johnson 
    In this unit, you will 
1  read about Shackleton’s Antarctic expedition.
2  listen to the crew members talk about their 
own experiences during the expedition. 
3  write an essay about the story.
4  learn about explorers and other outstanding 
people and how they overcame adversity.
    Look and discuss
1  What happened to the ship in the photo? 
2  How would you feel and what would you 
do if you were on this ship? 
ADVERSITY 
AND COURAGE
UNIT 4
37

===== PAGE 45 =====
Explore the spirit of adventure
Reading and Thinking
1	 Read this advertisement that was posted by a famous British explorer. 
Discuss the questions with your group members.
2	 Read the text and answer the questions.
for a dangerous journey: small wages, bitter 
cold, long months of complete darkness, constant 
danger, and safe return uncertain. Honour and 
reward will follow if it is successful.
Ernest Shackleton
MEN WANTED
1	 According to the advertisement, 
what kind of men was Ernest 
Shackleton looking for?
2	 Would you like to join an 
expedition like this? Why or why 
not?
A SUCCESSFUL FAILURE
Perce Blackborow joined an expedition with Sir Ernest Shackleton to Antarctica on the ship 
Endurance in 1914. Shackleton was one of the most famous explorers of his day and it was 
considered a great honour to be part of his expeditions. Below are some of Blackborow’s diary 
entries.
31 Oct 1914
… Well, it so happened that one morning I bought a newspaper and read the advertisement 
about the Antarctic expedition.
An expedition to the South Pole with the great Sir Ernest Shackleton—this is the adventure 
that I have been dreaming of. And I was ready for it. At the age of 19, I am fit and full of 
vigour. However, when I applied to join the expedition, Shackleton turned me down because 
he thought I was too young and wasn’t qualified. But I was so enthusiastic about the idea 
of going along with them that I secretly went aboard his ship, the Endurance, and hid in a 
small cupboard. Unfortunately, three days after we set off I was discovered. Shackleton did 
not want to turn back so he offered me a job, but only after he promised me, “If anyone has 
to be eaten, then you will be the first!” He assigned me to be a steward, and I now serve 
meals for twenty-eight men, three times a day.
How everyone will envy me when I come back and tell them about the amazing places I have 
been to!
21 Nov 1915
The journey has not been easy. Endurance  became stuck in the ice as we approached 
Antarctica. The ice froze around us and we were well and truly stuck! We saw the ship get 
crushed by the ice. And when the ship sank, our hearts sank with it.
Before we abandoned the ship, Shackleton calmly called us together and told us to rescue 
our most essential supplies—the small boats, our food, the cook stove, candles, clothes, 
and blankets. This was no time to panic. We were not allowed to take most of our personal 
belongings, and Shackleton himself threw away all his gold. But to our surprise, he allowed 
Hussey to keep his banjo. Hussey often plays it to keep our spirits up.
We are now camped on the ice and we have been managing to survive, but spring is coming, and the 
ice will soon begin to melt.
38