UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 46 =====
3	 What do the highlighted words mean? Use your own words to explain them.
4	 Read the text again and discuss the questions with your partner.
5	 Imagine you are Perce Blackborow. Write a message in a bottle to explain 
your situation and ask for help.
1	 How did Blackborow come to join the expedition?
2	 What happened to Endurance? What did the crew members have to do?
3	 What did Shackleton do to make sure they could survive?
1	 How did Blackborow’s feelings about being on 
the expedition change as the days passed?
2	 What personal qualities did Shackleton, Wild, 
and Blackborow exhibit? Find examples from the 
text to support your answers.
To infer means to guess something 
based on the evidence. When inferring 
character traits and emotions in a story, 
you need to look at the characters' words 
and actions. What do these tell us about 
their personal qualities and feelings?
Infer character traits and emotions
20 May 1916
We have been struggling for days, but things on Elephant 
Island are going from bad to worse. We are now crowded 
together under one of our boats on the rocky shore of this 
miserable place. Soon after we arrived, Shackleton left us to 
find help on South Georgia Island, 1,320 kilometres away—the 
voyage was too dangerous and difficult for all of us to make it 
in our small boats. If Shackleton fails, will we have any hope of rescue? No. No navy in 
the world ever stops at Elephant Island, and no one else knows that we are here.
I feel low. It’s cold and windy. The island has no plants. Sometimes we are able to catch 
a seal or a penguin to eat. Otherwise, there is no food. I try to think of happier things: 
decent food, warm and dry clothes, a cosy bedroom, sunny days, and my mother’s face … 
However, these happy memories are soon interrupted by a sudden cold rush of air.
I shouted, “Shut the door!”
“Hold on now, Perce. Don’t you go turning into another Tom,” came the reply. “We’ve 
caught another penguin, so it’s penguin soup tonight!”
Bless Frank Wild, the kindest man there is after our leader, Ernest Shackleton. How 
could I become as selfish and bad-tempered as Thomas Orde-Lees!
Without Frank and Ernest, we’d all be dead by now. Their genuine concern for others, 
their perseverance, and their resolve fill me with hope.
Perhaps there is a chance we will return home, after all. 
Ernest Shackleton 
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE
39

===== PAGE 47 =====
Learning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1	 Find the suitable adjectives from the previous text to complete the sentences. 
The first letter of each word has been given.
2	 Choose the appropriate word to complete each sentence.
3	 Complete the passage with the correct forms of the words in the box.
abandon         aboard         assign         crew                       cupboard         
resolve              set off          sink              turn … down         voyage
1	 He behaves in a d
  manner and we think he is a real gentleman.
2	 With the gentle music, soft lights, and comfortable sofas, this café is everything you need 
after a tiring day. It is a c
 and relaxing place.
3	 He used to be so cross and b
 that nobody could tolerate him, but the birth of 
his son changed his life and made him a better person.
4	 Life was cruel to Oliver when he was young. Although living a m
 life, he had a 
very kind heart.
5	 Try to learn from your mistakes and b
 failures. It will eventually lead to success 
as long as you persevere.
6	 The young boy has demonstrated a g
 interest in the expedition to the Antarctic.
1	 The fire alarm caused a panic/worry in the theatre and the crowd fled in all directions.
2	 Although my grandpa is retired, he is very enthusiastic/concerned about volunteer work.
3	 The officer was assigned/employed to conduct a thorough investigation into the incident.
4	 The sun was sinking/falling behind the mountains when we reached the top.
5	 It took him a lot of vigour/energy to move all the items of furniture inside the house.
After seeing the advertisement in the newspaper, Perce Blackborow 
 to join the 
Antarctic expedition led by Sir Ernest Shackleton no matter what challenges might lie ahead. 
Unfortunately, his application 
 because he was too young and not qualified 
enough. However, he managed to get 
 the Endurance with his friend’s help. 
He hid in a 
, but was soon discovered and brought to Shackleton. Although 
the captain was angry, he 
 the boy the job of cooking for the 
. 
Their 
 did not go smoothly, and the Endurance became stuck in the ice. Before 
the Endurance was crushed and 
 into the sea, Shackleton gave the order to 
 ship, and the crew had to camp on ice. They then sailed to Elephant Island. 
Soon after that, Shackleton selected a boat party and 
 for South Georgia Island 
to get help.
40
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 48 =====
Discover useful structures
1	 Look at the sentence in the present perfect continuous tense. Find more 
examples from the previous text and discuss the function of the tense. 
	
EXAMPLE	 This is the adventure that I have been dreaming of.
	
	
     
2	 Read each situation and rewrite each sentence using the present perfect 
continuous tense. 
3	 Complete the sentences below using the correct tenses of the verbs in 
brackets. Then explain your reasons to your partner.
4	 Work in pairs. Interview your partner about the things that he/she has been 
doing. The following questions might help you.
1	 The dog started to bark about two hours ago. I really hope it will stop soon. 
	
The dog has been barking for about two hours. I really hope it will stop soon. 
2	 Steve started to play rugby at the age of eight. Now he has become a professional player. 
	
3	 Timmy is holding a table tennis bat and his short hair is damp with sweat. He looks a little 
tired after playing table tennis for two hours. 
	
4	 Diane hasn’t got much sleep this week. She looks terrible today. 
	
5	 I tried to phone you this morning. I must have tried a dozen times before I caught you here. 
	
1	 For the whole morning, the board of directors 
 (discuss) the resolution to 
increase wages in the coming year.
2	 Jason’s only recreation is painting. He 
 (learn) how to paint for over five 
years.
3	 Even though we lost the game, we should be proud of ourselves because we 
 
(try) our best and 
 (work) as a team. 
4	 He finally 
 (finish) the research paper under his tutor’s guidance. 
5	 My nephew Sam 
 (collect) comic books since he was five. Now he has 
more than two hundred of them. 
6	 The company 
 (launch) an advertising campaign to promote its corporate 
image. 
•  Do you have any hobbies or interests? 
•  How long have you been learning/playing …?
•  What have you been doing recently? 
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE
41

===== PAGE 49 =====
Using Language
1    Shackleton and a team tried to sail to another island to find help. Look at the 
picture below and discuss the challenges you think they faced. 
2    Listen to one of the team members talk about the rescue plan and their journey. 
Complete the summary.
3    Listen again and answer these questions.
Learn how to handle challenges
During a talk, a speaker can talk about 
cause and effect. Causes are often 
introduced with phrases like Due to …, The 
reason for this is …, and because …, while 
effects are introduced by phrases like 
That’s why …, This means …, … so as to …, … 
so that … .
Identify cause and effect
The team consisted of 
 members. They sailed on rough seas for days before they 
landed on the 
 side of South Georgia Island. Later they climbed over the mountains 
and 
 the whaling station. Later, Shackleton arranged for a rescue boat to return to 
 Island. Luckily, everyone was 
. 
1	 Why was it necessary for Shackleton to 
travel to South Georgia Island?
2	 Why was it important to include a 
navigator in the team?
3	 Why did Shackleton choose the most 
difficult and unfriendly man to join the 
rescue mission?
4	 Why did Shackleton look extremely old?
South Georgia Island
42
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 50 =====
Listening and Speaking
4    Which two sailors do you think Shackleton chose to join the rescue team? Look at  
the list below and discuss in groups who you think should join the team.
5    After you have selected your two sailors, present your choice to the class. 
Who should join the rescue team?
Name
Skills
Qualities
1 Frank Wild 
• good leader
• experienced in exploring the Antarctic
• loyal, kind, and calm
2 Frank Worsley
• excellent navigator
• experienced sailor
• odd behaviour at times, but
   liked by crew
3 Tom Crean
• second officer
• experienced in living in the Antarctic
• strong, energetic, and 
   brave 
4 Hubert Hudson
• navigator
• best at catching penguins
• friendly and lively
5 Thomas Orde-
Lees
• efficient store keeper
• motor expert 
• excellent skier
• selfish, lazy, and bad-
   tempered
Exploring options
	
•  What do you think (about) …?	
•  Any ideas?
	
•  How do you feel (about) …?	
•  What are the alternatives?
	
•  Let’ s look at …	
•  Let’ s move on to the next candidate. 
	
•  What/How about …?	
•  Should we move on to the next one?
	
The expressions in the box below may help you with your discussion. 
       EXAMPLE
A:	 We have to decide on which two sailors Shackleton chose for his rescue team. Let’s look 
at Frank Wild.
B:	 He is a good leader and is experienced in exploring the Antarctic. So, I think he’s suitable 
to join the rescue team.
C:	 Hmm, I think we should move on to the next sailor. According to Perce’s diary entries, 
Frank Wild was left with the other crew members on Elephant Island.
A:	 I agree. Let’s move on to the next candidate. What do you think about Frank Worsley?
B:  Well, he is …
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE
43

===== PAGE 51 =====
THE REWARD FOR PERSEVERANCE
1  	 This is a continuation of the story of Shackleton’s men who were left on 
Elephant Island. In pairs, predict what happened to the crew members. Then 
read the memoir below to see if your predictions were correct.
Learn about optimism and perseverance
We watched as Shackleton and the boat sailed away from Elephant Island. It was easy 
to imagine the danger ahead of them. Would they ever return to find us? What might 
happen to them? What if they were delayed? We felt so alone and desperate. But it was not 
for long. There was nothing like a good dinner and some music to cheer us up.
Life fell into a regular pattern. Staying alive took all our time and energy. For example, 
we needed water, and Elephant Island had none. We found that we could melt ice from 
the ocean and drink the water from it. But how could we make fire? There were no trees 
growing on Antarctica and no oil, so the only fuel we could use was animal fat. This gave 
off oily, black smoke, but it stayed burning even in strong winds.
Food was also a problem, as we did not find any vegetables or fruit on the island. One 
of our group members, Lionel Greenstreet, noted in his diary about how bored he was 
with the meals: “The food now is pretty well all meat of sea creatures.” If it weren’t for sea 
animals, we would all starve. As a chef, it was my duty to cook, so I tried to vary the meals 
in whatever way I could. But it was difficult.
We had to be careful not to go outside too often, as the changing temperatures could make 
us ill. It was almost as dangerous to become too hot from wearing too many clothes as to 
become too cold from wearing too few. The sweat could freeze very quickly. Many of us also 
became ill from the black smoke of the animal fat we burnt for our fires. It damaged our 
eyes and burnt our lungs.
Using Language
Point Wild, where Shackleton’s men were rescued in 1916
44
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 52 =====
2  	 Read the text again and answer the following questions.
3  	 Based on the diary entries and the memoir you have read, write an essay about the 
story of Shackleton and his men on the ship Endurance.
4	 Exchange drafts with a partner. Use the checklist to give feedback on your partner’s 
draft.
5	 Get your draft back and revise it. Then put up your essay in your classroom or read 
it to the class. 
1	
Read the story again and think about the following questions. Make notes with your 
answers.
	
• How does the author describe Shackleton and his crew members? 
	
• What kind of relationship did Shackleton have with his crew? 
	
• What struggles did they face?
	
• What were the motives for their actions? 
	
• What did you like most about the story?
2	
Begin your essay with a brief summary of the story. Remember to include who, what, 
where, when, why, and how.
3	
Use your notes and cite examples to explain what you think about the characters.  
4	
End your essay by talking about how the story made you feel, and give your overall 
impressions of the expedition and the men who went on it. Explain why you feel this way.
1	
What did the men eat and drink on the island?
2	
What were the dangers of living on the island?
3	
How did the men stay in good spirits while waiting to be rescued?
4	
What do you think were the key reasons for their survival?
5	
If you were one of the men on Elephant Island, would you have trusted Shackleton? Why 
or why not?
 Does the essay contain the main points in the story?
 Is the essay written in the writer’s own words?
 Does the writer give his/her opinion about the story?
 Does the writer present his/her ideas clearly by using linking words and phrases?
The twenty-two of us lived like this in the cold for four months. Our discipline and team 
spirit kept us optimistic and helped us deal with our fears in a positive and successful 
way. We also celebrated our birthdays, festivals, and even the times when we caught a sea 
animal. This was an episode in my life that I would never forget.
When we were finally rescued, we felt such relief and joy that many of us could not hide 
our tears. We were at last free to go home to warm beds, good food, and the care of our 
family and friends. Our optimism and faith in Shackleton had helped us persevere in 
staying alive. And he paid us back by his commitment to save us from a slow but painful 
death.
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE
45

===== PAGE 53 =====
1	 Complete the passage with the proper forms of the words in the box.
2	 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the verbs in brackets.
Assessing Your Progress
  What have you learnt from Earnest Shackleton and the Endurance expedition?
  What adjectives would you use to describe Shackleton and his crew? Give your 
reasons. 
  What do you think are good ways to overcome adversity? 
  Which part of the unit did you find the most difficult? How did you cope with it?
  Overall, I thought this unit was  
 interesting  
 useful  
 so-so  
 difficult.
REFLECTING 
candidate       commitment      cruel       damp       motive      resolution       wage
One hundred years ago, exploring the Antarctic was a dangerous business. Because of the 
 weather and very little knowledge of how to survive in the Antarctic, the chances 
of success were quite slim and many explorers died. The people who signed up for such 
voyages were paid low 
 and had to tolerate poor working conditions and rough 
seas, along with the cold and 
 weather. They also had to have a strong 
 
to finish what they had started no matter how hard it was, great personal discipline, and a firm 
 to the other members of the team. Yet, many 
 still applied to join such 
explorations. Some might have wanted to become famous. Others were looking for rewards. 
However, the 
 for many was to experience a great adventure.
1	
The philosophy of Confucius, also known as Confucianism, 
 deeply 
(influence) Chinese culture. 
2	
Henry 
 (join) the navy when he was 20 and he 
 (retire) now. 
3	
The girl 
 (want) to meet the pianist ever since she 
 (attend) his concert. 
4	
 you 
 (hear) of the saying “Curiosity killed the cat”? 
5	
Your fridge 
 (give off) a terrible smell. When 
 you last 
 (clean) 
it?  
6	
As the children are older now, we 
 (think) of moving to a bigger house. 
7	
My friend Maggie 
 (ask) me to visit her for ages, but I 
 not really 
 (have) the time.
8	
I 
 (expect) the movie to end happily, but actually it has a sad ending. 
46
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 54 =====
*Project: Give a report on people who persevere
Give a report on people who have encountered adversity in their lives but have 
persevered and overcome the difficulties.
1	 Work in groups. Brainstorm and make a list of possible candidates that you would 
like to conduct research on.
2	 Choose three people to do your research on. Each person should come from a 
different country and have faced a different challenge.
3	 Here are the kinds of information you should gather:
4	 After gathering the information you need, create an outline to help you organise 
ideas for your report.
5	 Turn your outline into a report. Remember to include pictures. Then share your 
report with the class.
EXAMPLE
Name
Gender
Occupation
Country
Frédéric François Chopin
(March 1, 1810–October 17, 1849)
male
composer, pianist
Poland
Sima Qian (145 BCE–?)
male
historian
China
Ludwig van Beethoven
(Dec 16, 1770–March 26, 1827)
male
composer
Germany
• Basic background information about the person
• Challenges that this person faced
• How he/she overcame the difficulties
• His/Her subsequent achievements
• What people think of him/her
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE
47

===== PAGE 55 =====
BEFORE  YOU WATCH
Read the following events and try to number them in the correct order.
___ The climbers wait in their tents for the bad weather to pass.
___ The team travels 64 kilometres over the ice and snow.
___ The team begins the climb again.
___ The team spends the night in tents that hang about 450 metres above the ground.
___ The team reaches the top of the mountain.
___ Lead climber Conrad Anker begins climbing Mount Rakekniven.
___ Jon Krakauer puts a flag on the top of the mountain.
___ The weather changes.
___ The team is forced to climb down the peak.
WHILE  YOU WATCH
1	 Check your answers in Before You Watch.
2	 Answer the questions using information from the video.
	
1	 What is so special about Mount Rakekniven?
	
2	 What is Jon Krakauer’s main job on this climb?
	
3	 Apart from the steepness of the mountain, what makes this climb especially difficult?
	
4	 How long does the climb take in total?
AFTER  YOU WATCH
Discuss these questions in groups.
	
1	 Why do you think Krakauer wanted to climb another mountain again so soon after 
climbing Mount Qomolangma?
	
2	 The video says that the challenge of the climb was “not only physical, but personal” for 
Krakauer. What do you think this means?
	
3	 How might a difficult challenge help a person overcome sadness or other bad feelings?
Antarctic Challenge
In 1996, author and mountain climber Jon Krakauer 
attempted to climb Mount Qomolangma. While he 
was successful in his climb, the mountain was hit 
by bad weather that day, and eight other climbers—
some of his good friends—were killed. Less than a 
year later, Krakauer and five other men attempted 
to climb Mount Rakekniven in Antarctica.
* Video Time
1
48
UNIT 4  ADVERSITY AND COURAGE

===== PAGE 56 =====
  UNIT 1  PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—
I took the one less travelled by,
And that has made all the difference. 
— Robert Frost
    In this unit, you will 
1  read a brief introduction on some simple forms 
of English poems.
2  listen to a discussion about poetry and talk 
about how to write poems.
3  write your own poems.
4  explore the characteristics of different forms of 
poems and learn to appreciate English poems.  
    Look and discuss
1  Do you understand the poem lines in the 
photo? Can you use your own words to 
explain them? 
2	 When you think of the words “poem” or 
“poetry”, what comes to mind?
POEMS
UNIT 5
49

===== PAGE 57 =====
Appreciate different forms of English poems
Reading and Thinking
1	 Before you read, discuss the questions with your partner.
1	 Compared with other forms of literature such as the novel, drama, and the short story, 
what are the characteristics of poetry? 
2	 Why do you think people write poems? 
A FEW SIMPLE FORMS 
OF ENGLISH POEMS
There are various reasons why people compose 
poetry. Some poems tell a story or describe a 
certain image in the reader’s mind. Others try to 
convey certain feelings such as joy and sorrow. The 
distinctive characteristics of poetry often include 
economical use of words, descriptive and vivid 
language, integrated imagery, literary devices such 
as similes and metaphors, and arrangement of 
words, lines, rhymes, and rhythm. Poets use many 
different forms of poetry to express themselves. 
Now we will look at a few of the simpler forms.
Some of the first poems a young child learns in 
English are nursery rhymes. They are usually the 
traditional poems or folk songs. The language of 
these rhymes, like Poem A, is to the point but has 
a storyline. Many children enjoy nursery rhymes 
because they rhyme, have a strong rhythm, and 
often repeat the same words. The poems may 
not make sense and even seem contradictory, but 
they are easy to learn and recite. By playing with 
the words in nursery rhymes, children learn about 
language.
One of the simplest kinds of poem is the “list 
poem”, which contains a list of things, people, 
ideas, or descriptions that develop a particular 
theme. List poems have a flexible line length and 
repeated phrases which give both a pattern and a 
rhythm to the poem. Some rhyme (like B and C), 
while others do not.
2	 Read the text and complete the table on page 51. 
Hush, little baby, don’t say a word,
Papa’s gonna buy you a mockingbird.
If that mockingbird won’t sing,
Papa’s gonna buy you a diamond ring.
If that diamond ring turns to brass,
Papa’s gonna buy you a looking glass.
If that looking glass gets broke,
Papa’s gonna buy you a billy goat.
If that billy goat won’t pull,
Papa’s gonna buy you a cart and bull.
Only One Mother
Hundreds of stars in the pretty sky,
Hundreds of shells on the shore together,
Hundreds of birds that go singing by,
Hundreds of lambs in the sunny weather.
Hundreds of dewdrops to greet the dawn,
Hundreds of bees in the purple clover,
Hundreds of butterflies on the lawn,
But only one mother the wide world over.
George Cooper
A
B
C
LIFE
Life can be good,
Life can be bad, 
Life is mostly cheerful, 
but sometimes sad
Life can be dreams,
Life can be great thoughts
Life can mean a person,
Sitting in court.
50